---
layout: post
date: '2018-09-14 02:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/apple-unveils-new-iphone-xs-xs-max-and-xr-and-the-apple-watch-series-4/
published: true
type: BlogPosting
title: Apple Unveils New iPhone XS XS Max and XR and the Apple Watch Series 4
tagline: Apple Unveils New iPhone XS XS Max and XR and the Apple Watch Series 4
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2018/Apple-Watch-Series-4-Tim-Cook.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2018/Apple-Watch-Series-4-Tim-Cook.jpg
link: /assets/app-images/2018/Apple-Watch-Series-4-Tim-Cook.jpg
cta: 2
custom_js:
- js/validate
- js/contactform
- js/alertify
- js/custom
comments: true
---
Apple has thrown back the curtain on its latest batch of iPhones and a
new model of the Apple Watch. The company also announced plans to
release iOS 12, watchOS 5, and tvOS 12 on September 17th. macOS 10.14
Mojave will follow a week later on September 24th.

### X Appeal: The New iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max, and iPhone XR
---
Last year's iPhone X was a massive hit, so Apple has gone further down
that road, dropping the Home button and Touch ID and focusing on Face ID
in this year's iPhones. There are three models: the mid-level iPhone XS
(pronounced "Ten Ess"), the big iPhone XS Max, and the less-expensive
iPhone XR.

<img src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2018/newwatch/image2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

You can pre-order the first two on September 14th, and they'll ship a
week later. Those who want an iPhone XR will have to wait until October
19th to pre-order. Here's how the pricing shakes out:

-   **iPhone XS:** 64 GB for \$999, 256 GB for \$1149, 512 GB for \$1349

-   **iPhone XS Max:** 64 GB for \$1099, 256 GB for \$1249, 512 GB for
    \$1499

-   **iPhone XR:** 64 GB for \$749, 128 GB for \$799, 256 GB for \$899

What do you get for your money? All three new iPhones rely on Apple's
new A12 Bionic chip, which promises faster performance and reduced power
consumption compared to last year's A11 Bionic. Along with snappier
overall responsiveness, the A12 Bionic enables new computational
photography capabilities. Users of these iPhones will enjoy Smart HDR,
which combines multiple images behind the scenes to produce better
photos, and depth-of-field editing for adjusting the background behind a
photo's primary subject.

Apple also improved the camera hardware, enhancing the dual 12-megapixel
rear-facing cameras in the iPhone XS and XS Max with larger, deeper
pixels and an improved True Tone flash. The iPhone XR lacks 2x optical
zoom because it has only a single rear-facing 12-megapixel camera, but
thanks to the A12 Bionic's processing power, it can still take photos in
Portrait mode and do depth-of-field editing. The rear-facing cameras on
all three models can capture up to 4K video at 60 frames per
second---now with stereo sound. The front-facing camera on each iPhone
is a 7-megapixel TrueDepth camera that can also capture 1080p video.

If you carry separate work and personal phones, or if you travel abroad
frequently, you'll appreciate the new dual-SIM capability that lets
these iPhones support two phone numbers simultaneously, each with their
own plan.

What differentiates these iPhones from one another? One big difference
is the screens.

-   **iPhone XS:** 5.8-inch OLED "Super Retina HD" display with a
    2436-by-1125 resolution at 458 ppi

-   **iPhone XS Max:** 6.5-inch OLED "Super Retina HD" display with a
    2688-by-1242 resolution at 458 ppi

-   **iPhone XR:** 6.1-inch LCD "Liquid Retina" display with a
    1792-by-828 resolution at 326 ppi

Apple makes much of the iPhone XR's LCD display, which is essentially a
newer and larger version of the screen in last year's iPhone 8. It won't
look as good as the OLED screens in the iPhone XS models, but unless
you're watching a lot of video or playing photo-realistic games, you may
not notice.

Another difference between these models is size. The iPhone XS is the
smallest, clocking in at a few millimeters and grams under the iPhone
XR. On the other end of the spectrum, the iPhone XS Max has essentially
the same dimensions as the previous iPhone Plus models.

<img src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2018/newwatch/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

The other major difference between the iPhone XR and the iPhone XS
models is the case material. The iPhone XS models have glass backs and
are edged in stainless steel that comes in silver, space gray, and gold.
In contrast, the iPhone XR features colorful aluminum casings in red,
yellow, white, coral, black, and blue. Both are gorgeous, but if you're
like many people, a protective case will prevent you from appreciating
the case material.

<img src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2018/newwatch/image4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Should you consider upgrading to one of these new models? If your
existing iPhone is on life support, absolutely. And, if you want the
latest and greatest, the iPhone XS models are the best iPhones ever,
particularly for photography. But for those with functional iPhones from
the past few years, these new models are less compelling, especially
since iOS 12 promises to speed up older devices as far back as the
iPhone 5s.

If you decide to buy one, which model you choose probably depends on how
much you're willing to spend since these are Apple's most expensive
iPhones ever. The iPhone XR combines modern technology with a lower
price than the other two models, and the decision between the iPhone XS
and XS Max comes down to size and cost. Finally, if the prices for the
new models are too high, you can still get the iPhone 7 starting at
\$449 and the iPhone 8 at \$599.

### Apple Watch Series 4: Bigger Screens and Health Monitoring
---

<img src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2018/newwatch/image5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

In a first for the Apple Watch line, Apple changed the size and shape of
the Apple Watch Series 4, boosting the vertical screen dimensions to
40mm and 44mm, up from 38mm and 42mm, and making the screens a little
wider to retain the same proportions. However, the new models are 1.1mm
thinner and thus have less total volume. You'll want to try on the
different models before buying to see how they look and feel on your
wrist. Happily, the Series 4 can use the same bands as previous models.

Apple claims the new display, which extends into the corners of the
screen, is "edge-to-edge," and while there still is a black border, it's
smaller than before. The overall viewing area is about 30% larger.

To use the extra screen space effectively and show off the power of its
new S4 chip, the Series 4 comes with some new faces. The Infograph face
can incorporate up to eight complications, the Breathe face moves in
time with a deep breath, and Vapor, Fire, Water, and Liquid Metal faces
animate behind virtual clock hands.

<img src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2018/newwatch/image6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

More practically, the Apple Watch Series 4 incorporates new and enhanced
sensors. Later this year, the electrodes built into the Digital Crown
and the back crystal let you record an electrocardiogram and, after 30
seconds, receive a heart rhythm classification that can identify signs
of atrial fibrillation. Recordings are stored securely in the Health
app, where you can share them with doctors. Even if you don't use the
ECG app manually, the Series 4 analyzes your heart rhythms in the
background and alerts you if it detects irregular rhythms or if the
heart rate exceeds or falls below a threshold.

<img src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2018/newwatch/image7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Plus, the Series 4 can now use its accelerometer and gyroscope to detect
hard falls. If you fall, the Apple Watch sends you an alert, and if you
don't move for 60 seconds after the notification, it calls emergency
services and notifies your emergency contacts of your location.

Other improvements include a speaker that is 50% louder, a relocated
microphone to make calls clearer, haptic feedback in the Digital Crown,
a back made of sapphire crystal and ceramic for better cellular
reception, and Bluetooth 5 for faster data transfer over greater
distances.

All this technology comes at a cost, and Apple has raised prices to
match. GPS-only models of the Apple Watch Series 4 cost \$399, and
cellular-capable models are \$499 (plus you'll need to pay an additional
\$10--\$15 for a cell plan). The Apple Watch Series 3 remains available
at lower prices: \$279 for GPS and \$379 for cellular. You can pre-order
on September 14th, and the Series 4 will ship on September 21st.

Our take is that the new health-monitoring features of the Apple Watch
Series 4 are compelling for anyone who is concerned about falls or heart
monitoring. But the increased prices may steer those who are mostly
interested in fitness features and iPhone notifications to the cheaper
Series 3.