---
layout: post
date: '2019-06-25 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/heres-what-you-need-to-know-about-the-butterfly-keyboard/
published: true
title: Heres What You Need to Know about the Butterfly Keyboard
description: Heres What You Need to Know about the Butterfly Keyboard
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/MacBook-Pro-butterfly-keyboard.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/MacBook-Pro-butterfly-keyboard.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/MacBook-Pro-butterfly-keyboard.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
When Apple introduced the 12-inch MacBook in April 2015, the machine was
the thinnest Mac ever, with a tapered design that starts at a mere 3.5
mm and grows only to 13.1 mm. A change from previous laptop models that
made such an incredibly thin design possible was a new keyboard that
swapped a scissor-style switch under each key for a new "butterfly
mechanism" that's 40 percent thinner.

In October 2016, Apple started using a second generation of the
so-called "butterfly" keyboard in the MacBook Pro line. Then, in July
2018, Apple updated the keyboard to a third-generation design that added
a thin silicone membrane under each key to protect from dust and other
foreign objects. That third-generation keyboard made its way into the
MacBook Air released in October 2018. Then, in May 2019, Apple once
again updated the keyboard in the latest models of the MacBook Pro,
telling journalists that the fourth-generation design has a "materials
change" in the mechanism.

Why has Apple kept tinkering with the butterfly keyboard? Put frankly,
because it has had problems. Although there are no independent estimates
of what percentage of Macs equipped with butterfly keyboards are
afflicted, many users have complained about keys sticking or feeling
crunchy, keys failing to fire at all (so no letter is typed when the key
is pressed), and keys repeating (so multiple letters are typed per
keypress).

In fact, in June 2018, just before the third-generation design appeared
in the MacBook Pro, Apple acknowledged that "a small percentage" of
first- and second-generation butterfly keyboards were affected and
launched a repair program to fix them for free, even if they were out of
warranty. (The fact that a class-action suit surrounding the butterfly
keyboards was filed against Apple in May 2018 might have been related.)

Alas, the silicone membrane didn't resolve all the issues, and after the
E and R keys on her MacBook Pro failed, influential tech journalist
Joanna Stern of the Wall Street Journal wrote a hilarious column
entitled "Appl Still Hasn't Fixd Its MacBook Kyboad Problm," complete
with interactive switches so you could read it with or without the
various missing and duplicated letters. Plus, a repair technician [tore
down a MacBook Pro
keyboard](https://www.reddit.com/r/apple/comments/bjtyaw/macbook_pro_keyboard_failures_why_apples_dust/){:rel="nofollow"}
to show why he didn't think dust was an issue. Apple apologized to the
Wall Street Journal, saying:

> We are aware that a small number of users are having issues with their
> third-generation butterfly keyboard and for that we are sorry. The
> vast majority of Mac notebook customers are having a positive
> experience with the new keyboard.

So when Apple released the fourth-generation butterfly keyboard with the
current MacBook Pro models, the company also extended the [Keyboard
Service Program for MacBook, MacBook Air, and MacBook
Pro](https://www.apple.com/support/keyboard-service-program-for-mac-notebooks/){:rel="nofollow"}
to cover the third-generation keyboards. The repair program lists the
exact models that are covered, but it basically comes down to any
12-inch MacBook, MacBook Air models released in late 2018, and MacBook
Pro models starting in 2016 and up to 2019.

What's the practical upshot of all this for you?

-   If you have a MacBook, MacBook Air, or MacBook Pro with one of these
    butterfly keyboards, and it's working properly, that's great! Do
    nothing---hopefully it will keep tip, tap, typing away.

-   If you have one of those Macs and are having problems, contact Apple
    or an Apple Authorized Service Provider for a repair. [Before you
    hand over any Mac for
    repair](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT209095){:rel="nofollow"}, make sure you
    have at least one and preferably two backups of your data, since
    Apple sometimes replaces storage devices while doing seemingly
    unrelated repairs.

-   If you already paid Apple to have your butterfly keyboard repaired,
    [contact Apple to request a
    refund](https://getsupport.apple.com/?PRKEYS=PF2&category_id=SC0998&symptom_id=99980&caller=erep){:rel="nofollow"}.

It's too soon to know if the fourth-generation butterfly keyboard will
resolve all the complaints, but whenever we're not typing, our fingers
are crossed.
