---
layout: post
date: '2019-11-18 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/why-apple-business-manager-is-a-win-for-firms/
published: true
title: Why Apple Business Manager Is a Win for Firms
description: Why Apple Business Manager Is a Win for Firms
blogimgpath: 20191101Wh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/Header-Apple-Business-Manager-photo.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/Header-Apple-Business-Manager-photo.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/Header-Apple-Business-Manager-photo.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
If you run a company, you know how much work onboarding a new employee
can be. Beyond teaching them the ropes of your business, they'll need a
Mac and potentially an iPhone or iPad as well. Setting those devices up
with all the right apps, settings, and logins can take days or even
weeks. And that's just for one person---imagine if you need to lather,
rinse, and repeat for dozens or even hundreds of new employees?

The solution is Apple Business Manager, which ensures that every Apple
device you purchase is associated with your corporate account---and in
some cases, with a particular user---before it's shipped to you. That
enables zero-touch configuration and makes manual setup a thing of the
past. Here's how we make this happen.

We'll work with someone at your company---your Business Contact---to set
you up with two Apple programs: Apple Custom Store and Apple Business
Manager. Your Business Contact will merely need to respond to some email
messages from Apple and have a call with Apple to verify that they can
agree to Apple's Terms & Conditions on behalf of your company.​

**Apple Custom Store**

The first program, Apple Custom Store, provides a customized corporate
store for purchasing Apple devices. That's important because all devices
purchased through your Apple Custom Store are automatically tied to your
company. In fact, they're connected to your company until you
intentionally release them while decommissioning, which can help protect
against theft or employees keeping devices they shouldn't.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191101Wh/Apple-Custom-Store.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

Even more important, all new Mac purchases must go through the Apple
Custom Store because there's no easy way to add Macs purchased in any
other way to Apple Business Manager.

Once you're set up with an Apple Custom Store, we can suggest custom
device configurations tailored to your company's needs and even create
templates for systems customized for different job roles. As a bonus,
you'll receive special "loyalty pricing" based on your annual purchase
volume.​

**Apple Business Manager**

The second program, Apple Business Manager, is what enables you to
enroll and manage devices purchased through your Apple Custom Store.
When we say "manage" we're talking about mobile device management, or
MDM. In essence, MDM systems allow IT administrators to define
"profiles" that specify your company's settings and policies. Those
might be particular to a user, such as configuring email login
credentials, or they might be general to everyone, such as security
policies that require all iOS devices to use a six-digit passcode and
Macs to turn on their screensavers after 2 minutes and require a
password to unlock. And, of course, an MDM system lets your company
control when to install operating system updates, ensuring that nothing
happens before you're ready.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191101Wh/Apple-Business-Manager.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

You use Apple Business Manager to associate a new device purchased from
your Apple Custom Store with the employee who will be receiving it. When
the device arrives, the employee unboxes it and turns it on, and your
MDM system goes to work downloading apps and configuring settings. Once
the employee signs in with their credentials, the MDM system continues
to configure the device for that person. No one from IT even has to
touch it---hence "zero-touch" configuration.

Enrolling your devices in your MDM system via Apple Business Manager
doesn't just help with initial deployment. Employee turnover is a fact
of life, and with a device in Apple Business Manager, you can use your
MDM system to redeploy a device quickly by wiping it and re-enrolling it
for the new employee.

We recommend that all Apple-using businesses purchase through an Apple
Custom Store and use Apple Business Manager to tie those devices to the
company's MDM system. Contact us for more information about what's
involved, and for our MDM recommendations.