---
layout: post
date: '2019-12-23 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/apple-releases-redesigned-mac-pro-and-pro-display-xdr/
published: true
title: Apple Releases Redesigned Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR
description: Apple Releases Redesigned Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR
blogimgpath: 20191202Ap
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/Header-Mac-Pro-and-Pro-Display-XDR-photo.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/Header-Mac-Pro-and-Pro-Display-XDR-photo.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/Header-Mac-Pro-and-Pro-Display-XDR-photo.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
We're not going to beat around the bush. Apple's new Mac Pro and Pro
Display XDR redefine what "pro" means. If you aren't certain that the
fastest and most powerful Mac and an expertly calibrated 6K Retina
display will enable you to make more money immediately, they're probably
not for you. You should also be ready to spend at least \$12,000---and
likely several thousand more---on the combination. For that money,
though, you'll get a system that puts every previous Mac setup to
shame.​

**Mac Pro**

The new [Mac Pro](https://www.apple.com/mac-pro/){:rel="nofollow"}, which Apple
first teased in April 2017 and formally announced over two years later
in June 2019, is the result of a complete reimagining of what a Mac for
pro users should offer. In contrast with the previous cylindrical
design, which favored form over function, Apple consulted with numerous
pro users on the design and specs of the new Mac Pro tower.

Physically, the Mac Pro utilizes a stainless steel frame that provides
mounting points for a wide array of components and configurations. An
aluminum housing slips off to provide 360-degree access, with the
processor, graphics, and expansion slots on one side, and storage and
memory on the other. One size does not fit all pro users, so you'll be
able to customize the Mac Pro to your needs. Finally, optional wheels
make it easy to move the Mac Pro around a set, stage, or studio.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191202Ap/Mac-Pro-inside-outside.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

For the ultimate in performance, the Mac Pro relies on an Intel Xeon W
processor, and you can choose from 8, 12, 16,[ 
]{.Apple-converted-space}24, or 28 cores. Base clock speeds vary with
the number of cores, but all except the 8-core model support Turbo Boost
to 4.4 GHz (the 8-core model only spikes to 4.0 GHz). Similarly, the
8-core model operates memory at 2666 MHz, whereas the remaining models
run memory at 2933 MHz for increased performance. With the high-end
28-core configuration, Apple is promoting performance increases over the
previous 12-core Mac Pro of 300% to 500% for activities like Photoshop
filters, Xcode builds, Logic Pro plug-ins, and Autodesk Maya rendering.

Speaking of RAM, the base level is 32 GB, but there are 12 DIMM slots,
so you can upgrade to 48 GB, 96 GB, 192 GB, 384 GB, 768 GB, or a
whopping 1.5 TB. That final RAM ceiling is available only with the 24-
and 28-core models.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191202Ap/Mac-Pro-RAM-GPUs.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

These days, much of a workstation's performance comes from its dedicated
GPUs, which are essential for 3D animation, 8K video compositing, and
building lifelike gaming environments, along with pure number crunching.
Apple integrates GPUs via the new Mac Pro Expansion Module, or MPX
Module, and the Mac Pro holds two MPX Modules. Those modules come with
an AMD Radeon Pro 580X, Radeon Pro Vega II, or Radeon Pro Vega II Duo,
the last of which combines two Vega II GPUs in a single module. For
maximum compute power, configure two MPX Modules with Radeon Pro Vega II
Duos for four GPUs. Those cards also offer a variety of DisplayPort,
Thunderbolt 3, and HDMI 2.0 ports for connecting displays.

Of course, any Mac aimed at pros needs to be expandable, and the Mac Pro
offers eight PCI Express expansion slots: four double-wide slots, three
single-wide slots, and one half-length slot preconfigured with an Apple
I/O card. Apple also offers the Afterburner PCI Express card, which
accelerates ProRes and ProRes RAW codecs in Final Cut Pro X, QuickTime
Player X, and supported third-party apps.

That Apple I/O card provides two USB 3 ports using the USB-A connector,
two Thunderbolt 3 ports, and two 10-gigabit Ethernet ports. The top of
the Mac Pro case (shown below) provides another two Thunderbolt 3 ports.
Of course, 802.11ac Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 5.0 are built in.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191202Ap/Mac-Pro-top.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

In terms of storage, the Mac Pro starts with a 256 GB SSD for those
whose data is all stored externally. However, you can also upgrade to 1,
2, or 4 TB SSDs, and Apple's T2 security chip automatically encrypts all
onboard storage.

All this computing power requires lots of electrical power, so Apple has
outfitted the Mac Pro with a 1.4-kilowatt power supply. It will generate
a lot of heat as well, so the design facilitates thermal cooling, with
heat pipes directing hot air away from the CPU and dispersing it along
aluminum fin stacks. Three impeller fans keep cool air moving across the
CPU and GPUs, while a blower on the other side pulls air across the
memory, storage, and power supply.​

**Pro Display XDR**

If you're a high-end software developer or audio pro, you may not care
that much about your monitor. But if you spend your days working with
video or graphics, you may want to consider Apple's new [Pro Display
XDR](https://www.apple.com/pro-display-xdr/){:rel="nofollow"} to accompany your Mac
Pro. It starts at \$4999.

For starters, the Pro Display XDR is a 6K Retina display, which provides
nearly 40% more screen real estate than a 5K display. It runs at
6016-by-3384 pixels at 218 pixels per inch. For those working with 4K
video, that means you can see your video and have room for your tools,
all on one screen.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191202Ap/Pro-Display-side-back.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

It's also likely the best-looking display you've ever used. It features
1000 nits of sustained brightness, and peaks at 1600 nits---most typical
desktop monitors provide only 350 nits of brightness. That results in a
1,000,000:1 contrast ratio. It also provides a P3 wide color gamut and
true 10-bit color, enabling it to produce more than 1 billion colors
accurately.

The Pro Display XDR offers reference modes that enable you to match its
output---color space, white point, gamma, and brightness---to the
requirements for HDR, HD, SD video, and digital cinema, not to mention
general photography, design, and print. You can even create custom
reference modes.

Most displays suffer if you're not looking straight at them, but with
new polarizing technology, the Pro Display XDR boasts a wide viewing
angle that provides up to 25 times better off-axis contrast than a
typical LCD screen. Apple also engineered it for low reflectivity, and
for the ultimate in matte screens, you can pay \$1000 more for
nano-texture glass that cuts reflections even further.

Not surprisingly, the Pro Display XDR is a hefty unit. It's 23.8 inches
(71.8 cm) wide, 16.2 inches (41.2 cm) high, and 1.1 (2.7 cm) inches
deep, and it tips the scales at 16.5 pounds (7.5 kg). On the back,
you'll find one Thunderbolt 3 port and three USB-C ports.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191202Ap/Pro-Display-sizes.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

What you won't get with the Pro Display XDR out of the box is a stand.
You can choose between Apple's Pro Stand for \$999 or the \$199 VESA
Mount Adapter, which lets you put the Pro Display XDR on an arm attached
to a desk or wall. The beefy Pro Stand, which weighs in at 9.5 pounds
(4.3 kg), offers a total height adjustment of 12 cm and can tilt from
-5º to +25º. When using the Pro Stand, you can also rotate the Pro
Display XDR from landscape to portrait to choose the orientation that
you prefer.​

**Configure Carefully**

As you can tell, the Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR provide a vast array of
options, and at the prices Apple is charging, you want to make sure
you're getting the configuration that best fits your needs and budget.
So before you order, get in touch with us to talk through what options
you're most likely to need.