---
layout: post
date: '2019-03-01 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/security-awareness-training-time-to-jump-on-the-bandwagon/
published: true
type: BlogPosting
title: "Security Awareness Training: Time to Jump on the Bandwagon"
description: "<br>Security Awareness Training: Time to Jump on the Bandwagon"
tags:
  - security
  - insight
  - training
categories:
  - tips
  - dark-web
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/rawpixel-799380-unsplash.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/rawpixel-799380-unsplash.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/rawpixel-799380-unsplash.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Human-error; we talk about it all the time, but what exactly do we mean?
Human-error occurs when an individual performs a task or does something
with an unintended outcome. It's easy to point the finger at employee's
as being an organization's weakest link, but without appropriate
security awareness training provided by the employer, how can employees
truly know what to watch out for?

An IBM study found that human-error accounts for 95% of security
incidents, yet security awareness training for employees often ends up
on the back burner.

In a recent
[survey](https://www.welivesecurity.com/2018/05/21/cybersecurity-training-still-neglected/){:rel="nofollow"}
by ESET, we learned that cybersecurity training is not a top priority
for many organizations, with 33.3% of employees feeling that their
employer has provided them with absolutely none. Only 17.9% of survey
respondents felt their employers were providing them with "A lot" of
cybersecurity training.

With the need for security training clear, even the most surprising
organizations are jumping on the bandwagon, offering security awareness
training as part of their services.

Since security incidents are often a result of employee mistakes, it is
evident that technology alone is not enough to protect an organization.
While antivirus (AV) companies may have previously found success in
offering their virus protection services alone, the realization that
employees are an organization's weakest link has led many AV vendors to
one conclusion: to be successful and provide services that can truly
defend against cybercrime, providing education through security
awareness training is key.

Educating employees on security awareness is crucial to organizations,
especially those with sensitive data, so why is the AV industry just
recently making a push to offer this service? Cybercriminals are
relentless in their efforts to carry out their attacks, and while AV
companies have historically been embarrassed to admit their products are
not the catch-all for fighting cybercrime, they have since recognized
that these criminals are becoming more sophisticated in their attempts.
In the digital era, criminals have become masterminds at forming social
engineering attacks to trick their victims, a scheme that no antivirus
can protect against.

In addition, a fierce competition and the desire to generate more
revenue could be contributing factors. With free AV software that
provides enough coverage for organizations to feel protected, they may
look to use those funds in other areas to defend themselves.

AV does play a crucial role in defending an organization, but it's
important to remember that a layered security strategy is necessary for
adequate protection.Â  We must not forget that without appropriate
training provided by organizations, employees cannot effectively act as
that first layer of defense.

Security awareness training will certainly help employees learn how to
spot malicious attempts by cybercriminals, but it is also required to
comply with federal and in some cases state regulations. A lack of
training will open the door for cybercriminals and may result in a
breach, causing potentially significant fines and penalties as well as
likely damage to an organization's reputation.

The time is now to jump on the security awareness training bandwagon!
After all, employees can't help defend against cybercrime if they aren't
provided with the necessary tools to do so.