---
layout: post
date: '2019-02-14 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/how-does-the-dark-web-impact-small-businesses/
published: true
type: BlogPosting
title: How Does the Dark Web Impact Small Businesses?
description: How Does the Dark Web Impact Small Businesses?
tags:
  - security
  - insight
  - training
categories:
  - tips
  - dark-web
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/DarkWebHeader.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/DarkWebHeader.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/DarkWebHeader.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Identity theft is an unfortunate occurrence that is all too familiar
with most business owners, but do those individuals know where the
compromised data will end up? Often, these business owners are unaware
of the virtual marketplace where stolen data is purchased and sold by
cybercriminals; a place known as the "Dark Web".  An [article on
Lexology](https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=9333b3f5-e404-479c-8d85-8c8491f318c9){:rel="nofollow"} explores
what the Dark Web is, what information is available for purchase there
and how it impacts small businesses.

**What is the Dark Web?**

The Dark Web, which is not accessible through traditional search engines
is often associated with a place used for illegal criminal activity.
While cybercriminals tend to use the Dark Web as a place to buy and sell
stolen information, there are also sites within it that do not engage in
criminal activity. For many, the most appealing aspect of the Dark Web
is its anonymity.

**What is for sale on the Dark Web?**

Information sold on the Dark Web varies, and includes items such as
stolen credit cards, stolen account information from financial
institutions, forged real-estate documents, stolen credentials and
compromised medical records. Even more alarming, the Dark Web contains
subcategories allowing a criminal to search for a specific brand of
credit card as well a specific location associated with that card. Not
only can these criminals find individual stolen items on the Dark Web,
but in some cases, entire "wallets" of compromised information are
available for purchase, containing items such as a driver's license,
social security number, birth certificate and credit card information.

**What is stolen personal information used for?**

When stolen information is obtained by criminals, it can be used for
countless activities like securing credit, mortgages, loans and tax
refunds. It is also possible that a criminal could create a "synthetic
identity" using stolen information and combining it with fictitious
information, thus creating a new, difficult to discover identity.

**Why are stolen credentials so valuable? **

Stolen user names and passwords are becoming increasing popular among
cybercriminals, but why? Identity thieves will often hire "account
checkers" who take stolen credentials and attempt to break into various
accounts across the web using those user names and passwords. The idea
here is that many individuals have poor password practices and are using
the same user name and password across various accounts, including
business account such as banking and eCommerce. If the "account checker"
is successful, the identity thief suddenly has access to multiple
accounts, in some cases allowing them the opportunity to open additional
accounts across financial and business-horizons.** **

**Why should small businesses be concerned about the Dark Web?**

Since the Dark Web is a marketplace for stolen data, most personal
information stolen from small businesses will end up there, creating
major cause for concern. With the media so often publicizing large-
scale corporate data breaches, small businesses often think they are not
a target for cybercriminals, however that is not the case.
Cybercriminals are far less concerned about the size of a business than
they are with how vulnerable their target is. Small businesses often
lack resources to effectively mitigate the risks of a cyberattack,
making them a prime target for identity theft as well as other
cybercrime.

At a recent Federal Trade Commission (FTC) conference, privacy
specialists noted that information available for purchase on the Dark
Web was up to twenty times more likely to come from a company who
suffered a data breach that was not reported to the media. The FTC also
announced at the conference that the majority of breaches investigated
by the U.S. Secret Service involved small businesses rather than large
corporations.

**How can you reduce the risk for your small business?**

To reduce the risks of a cybercriminal gaining access to your company's
information/network, you must ensure you have proper security measures
in place. The FTC has a [webpage](https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/guidance/start-security-guide-business) that
can assist with security options for businesses of any size.  In
addition, it is crucial that your employees are properly trained on
security, including appropriate password practices. There is also talk
of a government-led cyberthreat sharing program which would help enhance
security across all industries by sharing cyberthreat data.