---
layout: post
date: '2019-11-25 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/whats-your-plan-if-your-mac-dies/
published: true
title: Whats Your Plan If Your Mac Dies
description: Whats Your Plan If Your Mac Dies
blogimgpath: 20191101Wh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/Header-Fallback-Mac-photo.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/Header-Fallback-Mac-photo.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/Header-Fallback-Mac-photo.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
We assume you have a backup strategy. Hopefully, it includes a bootable
duplicate to minimize downtime in the event of a drive failure, a Time
Machine or other versioned backup to address the problem of a deleted or
corrupted file, and offsite backup to ensure that you don't lose
everything in the event of theft, fire, or flood. (And for many
California residents these days, fire is an increasingly likely
concern!)

A good backup strategy protects your data, though it's decidedly a case
of "necessary, but not sufficient." That's because problems that can
cause data loss can also result in the loss of your primary hardware.
Therein lies the question: what would you do if your Mac failed today?

Without getting into the full topic of disaster preparedness, let's run
through some possibilities of how you could respond if your main Mac
were to die and need to be repaired or replaced, either of which could
take days or weeks. There is no right answer here---all we're trying to
do is help you consider such a situation so you can better ensure you're
ready if it does happen.​

**Go Without Temporarily**

If your Mac usage is relatively minimal, you might be able to do without
while you repair or replace your Mac. That might be the case if your
home Mac has died but you do most things at work anyway, or if you use
an iPhone or iPad for most of your communications anyway.​

**Switch to an iPad Briefly**

If you need to accomplish more serious tasks while your Mac is at the
shop or en route from Apple, one possibility would be to migrate those
activities that can't wait to an iPad. Those who are considering an iPad
as a fallback device should be aware that, in our experience, it's often
difficult to move your work to an iPad
quickly.

You'll almost certainly need a physical keyboard for the iPad, for
instance, and even if you use many of the same apps, like Apple's iWork
suite or Microsoft Office apps, there may be unanticipated gotchas. Even
if most of your work takes place in email and on the Web, you may
encounter issues when dealing with attachments or with logging in to
lots of sites---a cross-platform password manager like 1Password or
LastPass is essential.

The only way to know if you can complete your work on an iPad
successfully is to do it for real. Take a day when you don't have major
commitments or deadlines and try to accomplish everything on the iPad,
working through each sticking point as you run into it.​

**Have a Backup Mac Available**

Few of us can afford to have an exact duplicate of our primary Mac
sitting idle in case of disaster, but it's not that difficult to ensure
that you have some Mac available to switch to. And it wouldn't be a
stretch for a business to have one reasonably capable Mac that's waiting
on the sidelines in case 1 of 15 or 20 Macs were to fail suddenly.

Many people like the combination of a primary desktop Mac and a less
powerful laptop Mac for traveling. An advantage to that approach is
that, with the right cables, the laptop Mac could be pressed into
service with an external display and access to a bootable duplicate hard
drive should the desktop Mac die.

Another strategy that works well is to hold onto an old Mac that you're
replacing instead of selling it or handing it down to another user. That
way, even if the performance may be slower than ideal, you can always
fall back to it if necessary.

Finally, you may be able to borrow a Mac from someone who has an extra
or doesn't need theirs for a while. In that case, you'll need to make
sure you can connect and boot from your bootable duplicate. That may
require twiddling a setting on a T2-equipped Mac, and it may be slower
than running from the internal drive, because most people probably won't
want you to backup, reformat, and later restore the data on their
internal drive.​

**Buy a New Mac for 13 Days**

Apple has a policy that [you can return a newly purchased Mac within 14
days for a full
refund](https://www.apple.com/shop/help/returns_refund){:rel="nofollow"}. That
means that if you have an Apple Store nearby, you can buy a new Mac,
restore your data onto it, use it until your failed Mac has been
repaired, and then return it. Apple Store employees often even recommend
this approach for those who drop Macs off for repairs that will take
more than a day or two.

Of course, if you're going to do this, retain everything in the package,
take good care of your interim Mac, and be sure to reformat its internal
drive before boxing it up for return. We recommend using FileVault when
setting it up to ensure that your data can't be extracted from the
internal drive, which can be possible even after a reformat.

Only you can figure out which of these approaches---or some entirely
different one---will work best in your situation. The main thing is that
you think about it ahead of time and make sure you have the necessary
hardware and accessories on hand. All hardware fails at some
point---will you be ready?