---
layout: post
date: '2019-11-15 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/new-16-inch-macbook-pro/
published: true
title: New 16 inch MacBook Pro
description: New 16 inch MacBook Pro
blogimgpath: 20191115Ne
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/2016-macbook-pro.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/2016-macbook-pro.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/2016-macbook-pro.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
New 16-inch MacBook Pro Model Sports a Redesigned Scissor-Switch Keyboard
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Responding to customer complaints and media mocking, Apple has
introduced [a new 16-inch MacBook
Pro](https://www.apple.com/macbook-pro-16/){:rel="nofollow"} that features
improves on its predecessor in several ways, most notably with a
scissor-switch keyboard in place of the flaky butterfly-key keyboard.
The 16-inch MacBook Pro replaces the previous 15-inch MacBook Pro at the
top of Apple's notebook line and starts at \$2399. The 13-inch MacBook
Pro and MacBook Air remain unchanged.

Apple also announced that the new [Mac
Pro](https://www.apple.com/mac-pro/){:rel="nofollow"} (starting at \$5999)
and [Apple Pro Display
XDR](https://www.apple.com/pro-display-xdr/){:rel="nofollow"} (starting at
\$4999) will ship in December 2019---we'll have more details once those
are available.

### New Keyboard Provides More Key Travel

Apple says the 16-inch MacBook Pro's new Magic Keyboard features "a
redesigned scissor mechanism and 1mm travel for a more satisfying key
feel." That's a positive way to say that many people disliked typing on
the previous keyboard's butterfly mechanism. Plus, keys failed
frequently, causing Apple to redesign the keyboard multiple times and
offer [a repair
program](https://support.apple.com/keyboard-service-program-for-mac-notebooks){:rel="nofollow"}
for out-of-warranty devices.

Although the new 16-inch MacBook Pro still features a Touch Bar with a
Touch ID sensor in place of the classic F-keys, another important
keyboard enhancement is the return of the physical Escape key and the
reinstatement of the traditional inverted-T layout for the arrow keys.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191115Ne/image2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

Initial reviews from pundits who received early access to the new
MacBook Pro were positive, with several vocal critics of the previous
keyboard saying the new one feels the way a keyboard should.

### About That 16-inch Display... and Other Displays

You might expect the 16-inch MacBook Pro's display to be its most
notable feature, and it is legitimately bigger, with that 16-inch
diagonal measurement and a slightly higher native resolution. But since
nearly everyone uses Retina displays at scaled resolutions like
1920-by-1200 or 1680-by-1050, the practical upshot is that the new
MacBook Pro won't show any more content on the screen than the previous
model, but what it does display will be a little bit larger. And it's
still gorgeous.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20191115Ne/image3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

To drive that larger screen, the 16-inch MacBook Pro continues to offer
both integrated (for better battery life) and discrete (for faster
performance) graphics. On the latter side, you can choose from the AMD
Radeon Pro 5300M with 4 GB of memory, or the Radeon Pro 5500M with
either 4 GB or 8 GB of memory. Those graphics chips simultaneously
support up to four 4K external displays or up to two 6K displays.

### More Power, More RAM, More Storage

Apple claims the 16-inch MacBook Pro is up to 80% faster than the
previous 15-inch MacBook Pro, thanks to new 9th-generation processors:
the 6-core Intel Core i7 and the 8-core Intel Core i9.

16 GB of RAM is the base level, which is good, since we don't recommend
any less than that. For those who need a higher RAM ceiling, Apple
offers 32 GB (\$400) and 64 GB (\$800) build-to-order options.

When it comes to SSD storage, the base level is 512 GB, but you can
upgrade to 1 TB (\$200), 2 TB (\$600), 4 TB (\$1200), or a whopping 8 TB
(\$2400).

### Radically Better Audio

Apple clearly had audio professionals in mind while designing the
16-inch MacBook Pro. Along with the beefy processors, high RAM ceilings,
and massive storage options, all of which will be popular with the audio
crowd, the new notebook features significantly improved audio input and
speakers.

For input, the MacBook Pro relies on a three-mic array with high
signal-to-noise ratio and directional beamforming that Apple claims
delivers a 40% reduction in hiss. Podcasters have praised the new mic
array, though without suggesting that it competes with dedicated mics.

Equally compelling for anyone who listens to music is the new
six-speaker, high-fidelity sound system. Its force-canceling woofers
with dual opposed speaker drivers reduce unwanted and sound-distorting
vibrations and enable the bass to go half an octave deeper than the
previous model. There's still a 3.5mm headphone jack too.

### Slightly Larger Physical Package

Between the larger screen, the six-speaker sound system, and the
100-watt-hour battery that Apple says provides up to 11 hours of battery
life, the company had to increase the size of the 16-inch MacBook Pro
slightly compared to the previous 15-inch model.

It's only about 8mm wider and 5mm deeper, which likely won't be
noticeable. However, it also weighs 4.3 pounds (1.95 kg), which is
noticeably more than the 4.02 (1.82 kg) pounds of the previous model.

802.11ac Wi-Fi and Bluetooth 5.0 remain standard for wireless
connectivity, and the 16-inch MacBook Pro continues to offer four
Thunderbolt 3.0 ports for charging and connectivity. You'll still need a
collection of dongles for connecting to USB-A peripherals, HDMI and
DisplayPort monitors, Ethernet networks, and so on.

### Price and Availability

You can buy the 16-inch MacBook Pro now, in either silver or space gray.
The base model starts at \$2399 with 16 GB of RAM, 512 GB of storage, a
6-core Intel Core i7 processor, and the AMD Radeon 5300M graphics chip.
That's a totally legit Mac, but if you need more power and can pay for
it, a maxed-out configuration with 64 GB of RAM and an 8 TB SSD would
set you back \$6099.

Note that the 16-inch MacBook Pro ships with macOS 10.15 Catalina and
almost certainly cannot be downgraded to 10.14 Mojave.

Frankly, this new MacBook Pro is a solid upgrade, particularly for those
who have been delaying due to the problems with the butterfly keyboard.
The only real problem is that the smaller, lighter, and less expensive
13-inch MacBook Pro and MacBook Air are still saddled with that
keyboard. We hope 2020 will bring the redesigned scissor-switch keyboard
to those models as well.