---
layout: post
date: '2019-07-16 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/use-spotlight-on-the-mac-to-convert-units-track-flights-find-movies-and-more/
published: true
title: Use Spotlight on the Mac to Convert Units Track Flights Find Movies and More
description: Use Spotlight on the Mac to Convert Units Track Flights Find Movies and More
blogimgpath: 20190703Us
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/ilya-pavlov-unsplash.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/ilya-pavlov-unsplash.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/ilya-pavlov-unsplash.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
Most Mac users probably think of searching on the Mac in relation to
finding files on their drives. That may be the most common use of
Apple's Spotlight search technology, but over the years, Apple has
continually enhanced Spotlight's capabilities, turning it into a
veritable Swiss Army Knife that you can invoke with a quick press of
Command-Space bar or a click on the magnifying glass at the right side
of the menu bar.

Here are a few of our favorite uses for Spotlight that you may not have
been aware of.

### Launch Apps and Open System Preference Panes

We recommend putting apps you use all the time in the Dock for quick
access, but what about apps you need only occasionally? You can always
root around in the Applications folder for them, but for quicker access,
invoke Spotlight and type the first few characters of the app's name
(Spotlight will guess at what you want; if it's wrong, keep typing).
Then double-click the app in the results list or if it's already
selected, press Return. It's a great way to bring up Activity Monitor to
see what's happening when your Mac feels slow. This trick also works
wonders for opening panes in System Preferences.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190703Us/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

For apps and preference panes whose names have multiple words, you can
also try typing the first letter of each word, like ug to find and open
the Users & Groups pane of System Preferences.

### Convert Units and Currency

Need to figure out what 72ยบ F is in Celsius? Or precisely how many
quarts are in a 2-liter bottle? Spotlight can do all sorts of
conversions for you. Just start typing your starting number, like 72,
and then follow it with something that indicates your starting unit,
such as "F" or "degrees." Spotlight displays the conversion instantly,
so you can tell if you've guessed wrong about the unit (K is degrees
Kelvin, so you'd use km to figure out how many miles in a 24-kilometer
race).

Particularly useful is Spotlight's capability to do real-time currency
conversions, since exchange rates fluctuate. It can't do every currency
on the planet, so you're on your own if you need to check on Burundi
francs, but you'll find all the major currencies. [The trick is knowing
their
abbreviations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217#Active_codes){:rel="nofollow"}:
the British pound is abbreviated GBP, the Canadian dollar is CAD, the
Japanese yen is JPY, and so on. To convert from US dollars into another
currency add the phrase "in GBP" or the like after the dollar amount.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190703Us/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

### Perform Calculations

We've come a long way from thinking that calculator watches are the
height of geek chic, but a calculator is still handy now and then. When
you want to perform a simple calculation for which a spreadsheet would
be overkill, you could use Spotlight to launch the Calculator app, but
it's faster to type your calculation into Spotlight itself. It even
supports parentheses for specifying an order of operations. The
screenshot is just for illustration; we mostly use this feature to add
up a series of numbers.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190703Us/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

### Look Up Words

Can't remember the difference between "affect" and "effect"? macOS's
Dictionary app has all the help you need, but as with Calculator,
Spotlight is a fast substitute. Type the word and click the entry under
Definition to see the dictionary entry over on the side. If you want to
look for synonyms in the thesaurus or explore other aspects of the word,
press Return to open the word in the Dictionary app.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190703Us/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

### Track Airline Flights

Need to pick your relatives up at the airport? Rather than hoping that
their flight will be on time, check to see if it is, with Spotlight. You
can usually type the airline name and flight number, but it's safest if
you know [the airline's two-letter
code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_airline_codes){:rel="nofollow"},
like DL for Delta, UA for United Airlines, and so on.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190703Us/image6.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

### Find Movie Info and Show Times

Spotlight can even prove useful at the end of the day when you're trying
to figure out if a particular movie is playing at the local cineplex.
Enter the title of a current movie and click its entry in the results
under Movies to see all sorts of details, including its Rotten Tomatoes
rating, when and where it's playing, and if you can instead get it on
iTunes.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190703Us/image7.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

### Stocks, Sports Scores, and Weather

Wait, there's more! Type a ticker symbol, like AAPL, into Spotlight to
see the stock's current price and activity for the day. Enter the name
of a professional sports team to see the score of the team's latest game
(assuming they're in season) and upcoming schedule. And type "weather"
and a city name to check the climate conditions for that location and
get an extended forecast.

### Customize Spotlight

You've probably noticed all sorts of other odd items in the results
list. That's because there's no telling what old email messages or
documents might also contain your search term. But you can trim the
results somewhat by turning certain items off. To do this, open System
Preferences \> Spotlight and deselect any categories that aren't
helpful.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190703Us/image8.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

If you never knew or have forgotten how useful Spotlight can be, give it
a try!