---
layout: post
date: '2019-09-12 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/when-should-you-upgrade-catalina/
published: true
title: When Should You Upgrade Catalina
description: When Should You Upgrade Catalina
blogimgpath: 20190903Wh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/Upgrade-Catalina-iPad-photo.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/Upgrade-Catalina-iPad-photo.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/Upgrade-Catalina-iPad-photo.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
As we get into September, it's a good bet that Apple will be pushing out
the next major versions of macOS, iOS, watchOS, and tvOS, along with the
new iPadOS, which is iOS with iPad-specific tweaks. Apple previewed
these new versions back in June, and they've been in public beta since.
Once Apple makes macOS 10.15 Catalina, iOS 13, iPadOS 13, watchOS 6, and
tvOS 13 available, the question looms large---when should you install
them?

(Note that we say *when* and not *if.* There's no harm in delaying major
operating system upgrades until Apple has squashed early bugs. But
waiting too long puts you at risk from security vulnerabilities and
prevents you from taking advantage of compelling new features. Plus,
should you have to replace one of your Apple devices unexpectedly, you
will likely have to use the current operating system, which could be
awkward if you weren't prepared.)

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903Wh/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

### macOS 10.15 Catalina

We'll start with the hardest decision---when should you upgrade to macOS
10.15 Catalina? Two features might make you want to upgrade soon: Screen
Time and Voice Control. With Catalina, Macs get the same usage
monitoring and limit setting that Apple introduced in iOS 12, which will
make Catalina a must-have for parents trying to help Mac-using kids
focus on what's important. Voice Control makes it vastly easier to
control your Mac---and dictate!---with just your voice, so if that's
compelling, look into upgrading soon.

Other new features are also attractive, such as dedicated Music, TV, and
Podcasts apps that replace iTunes; using an iPad as a second screen or
graphics tablet; and improved versions of Reminders, Notes, and Photos.
They won't drive most immediate upgrades, though.

Catalina has one big gotcha---it won't run old 32-bit apps. If you rely
on apps you haven't updated in the last few years, hold off on Catalina
until you've figured out how to update or replace them.

Regardless, we recommend waiting until at least version 10.15.1 or even
10.15.2 before upgrading. That gives you time to make sure your key apps
are fully compatible with Catalina and for Apple to resolve any
unanticipated problems. When you're ready, check out the ebook [*[Take
Control of Upgrading to
Catalina*](https://www.takecontrolbooks.com/catalina-upgrading/?pt=TCN)
if you want detailed advice on how to do it right.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903Wh/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

### iOS 13

While we urge caution with macOS updates, iOS updates are an easier
decision. Apple boasts that iOS 13 improves performance, particularly
with Face ID unlocking and app launches, which many people will
appreciate. iOS 13 also now offers a Dark mode like macOS that may be
easier on the eyes in dark rooms, though light-on-dark text is generally
harder to read than traditional dark-on-light text.

Photos in iOS 13 significantly improves photo editing, with portrait
lighting control, a high-key mono effect, and individual adjustment and
filter controls. Nearly all these editing tools work with videos too!
Apple completely rewrote Reminders, adding smart lists and integrations
that let Siri suggest reminders, as well as a quick toolbar to add
times, dates, locations, and more to your reminders. iOS 13 also
enhances Maps with Look Around, a Google Maps Street View competitor
that gives you a 360º view of supported areas. Maps also features a
rebuilt map with more detail, favorites, and collections of places to
see.

iOS 13 may not be life-changing unless you plan to rely on its addition
of Voice Control instead of touch, but we think it's a good upgrade.
Give it a week or two to make sure there isn't a major gotcha that Apple
missed, but after that, install when you have some time to play with the
new features.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903Wh/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

### iPadOS 13

iPadOS 13 is "new," but it's not an entirely new operating system to
learn. Instead, it's a superset of iOS 13 with iPad-specific features.
The Home screen can hold more icons, and you can pin Today View widgets
to the side for quick access. Safari in iPadOS is now a desktop-class
browser that lets you use complex Web apps like Google Docs,
Squarespace, and WordPress much as if you were on a Mac. Apple also
extended the iPad's multitasking features so you can switch between
multiple apps in SlideOver, open multiple "windows" for a single app in
Split View, and use App Exposé to navigate among app combinations.

If you already use your iPad for productivity, we think iPadOS 13 will
be a no-brainer upgrade. As with iOS 13, though, it's probably best to
wait a week or so to install, or until you're certain that your key apps
have been updated to be compatible.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903Wh/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

### watchOS 6

Once you've updated your iPhone to iOS 13, there's no reason not to
update to watchOS 6. It's not a huge update, but it has some nice
features. Most interesting are the health-related improvements, a Cycle
Tracking app for women and a Hearing Health app that warns you when the
ambient noise in your environment has risen to dangerous levels. Apple
has also introduced new watch faces that may float your boat, Siri can
identify songs playing nearby and return Web search results to your
wrist, a new Audiobooks app lets you listen anywhere, and Activity
Trends help you track your workout progress over time.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903Wh/image6.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

### tvOS 13

tvOS 13 is the easiest to agree to install, and it has some welcome new
features. Apple redesigned the Home screen a bit and allows the apps in
your top row to play video previews of their content (but you can shut
those off if you don't like them). More compelling is the addition of
Control Center, which lets you put the Apple TV to sleep, control
background audio playback, choose audio output, search, and switch
between users.

That's right, tvOS 13 introduces multi-user support that changes the
content within apps based on the current user. (Speaking of multi-user
support, iOS 13 on the HomePod also now differentiates based on who's
speaking---finally!) tvOS 13 can also display lyrics in the Music app
and supports Xbox One and PlayStation 4 wireless gaming controllers for
Apple's upcoming [Apple
Arcade](https://www.apple.com/apple-arcade/){:rel="nofollow"} service. And
it boasts a new collection of gorgeous underwater screen savers.

Change can be hard, but we're excited about these new operating systems.
Like you, we won't use all the new features, but we're confident that
some of them will radically enhance the experience of being an Apple
user.