---
layout: post
date: '2019-09-24 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/some-of-our-favorite-features-of-ios-13-and-ipados-13/
published: true
title: Some of Our Favorite Features of iOS 13 and iPadOS 13
description: Some of Our Favorite Features of iOS 13 and iPadOS 13
blogimgpath: 20190903So13
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2019/iOS-13-Photos.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2019/iOS-13-Photos.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2019/iOS-13-Photos.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
It's hard to sum up [iOS 13's
benefits](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-13-preview/){:rel="nofollow"}
succinctly because Apple has made so many improvements (we'll get to
what's cool about [iPadOS
13](https://www.apple.com/ipados/ipados-preview/){:rel="nofollow"} later in
the article). That means there's something for just about everyone. Here
are some of the changes we think you'll most appreciate.

### Better Text Handling

An area in iOS that has long begged for improvement is text handling.
Although the familiar approaches still work, you can finally select text
by merely tapping and swiping. Double-taps select recognized bits of
text like phone numbers and addresses, and triple and quadruple taps
select sentences and paragraphs. You can even move the cursor by
dragging it into position.

iOS 13 also gains gestures for the familiar Cut, Copy, and Paste
commands, along with Undo and Redo. To copy, pinch inward with three
fingers; a second three-fingered inward pinch immediately after changes
copy to cut. To paste, pinch outward with three fingers. For undo, swipe
left with three fingers, whereas redo involves swiping right with three
fingers.

Apple enhanced iOS 13's QuickType keyboard with a feature long offered
by independent keyboards: swipe to type. Called QuickPath, the feature
lets you swipe your finger from one letter to the next without picking
it up. You can switch between swiping and tapping whenever you want. It
works only on the iPhone and the iPad's new floating keyboard.

### Close the iPad Bay Doors, Hal

Apple has implemented its new Voice Control system in iOS 13 as well as
macOS 10.15 Catalina, and it's impressive in both. Once you turn it on
in Settings \> Accessibility \> Voice Control, you can use voice
commands to switch apps, tap visible controls, and more. Plus, it lets
you dictate text without invoking Siri.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903So/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

The dictation now lets you delete text, replace text, and capitalize
words, making it possible to edit what you've written without touching
the keyboard. Voice Control may sound like it's aimed at people who have
trouble physically using iOS's Multi-Touch interface, but it could be
useful to anyone.

### Files from Everywhere

Those who use an iPad for serious work will love the updated Files app,
which brings much of the power of the Mac's Finder to iOS. Most notably,
if you have Apple's [Lightning to USB3
Adapter](https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MK0W2AM/A/lightning-to-usb-3-camera-adapter){:rel="nofollow"},
Files offers support for USB flash drives, SD cards, and hard drives.
Plus, Files can also now connect to SMB-based file servers on your local
network.

You can create folders on the iOS device's local drive and store files
there, viewing them in grid, list, and column views and sorting by name,
date, size, kind, and tags. Files also now lets you zip and unzip files.
Oddly, Files also includes a document scanner that can create standalone
files of scanned pages.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903So/image3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

### Dark Mode Migrates from Mojave

If you're a fan of Dark mode in macOS 10.14 Mojave, you'll be pleased to
know that you can now switch to it in iOS too, or have it kick in only
at night. Dark mode might even save some battery power on iPhones with
OLED-based screens like the iPhone X, XS, and XS Max.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903So/image4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

### Photos Bulks Up

Apple added numerous features to Photos, refactoring its interface to
match the update in Catalina. It now provides an AI-curated selection of
photos displayed by Years, Months, and Days---complete with event
titles---plus an All Photos grid that shows everything. Live Photos and
videos play automatically (without sound) as you scroll.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903So/image5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

Editing has improved significantly, with Photos now offering tools to
boost muted colors, sharpen edges, reduce noise, adjust color
temperature, increase image clarity, and add vignettes. You can control
the intensity of any filter, or of the automatic Enhance adjustments.
Plus, nearly all the editing you can apply to a photo, you can use to
edit a video, and video edits are now non-destructive.

Apple beefed up the Camera app for recent iPhones, so you can adjust the
position and intensity of the studio lighting in Portrait Lighting, and
it also gains a new High-Key Mono effect.

### Health Adds Cycle Tracking and Fertility

On the iPhone, the Health app at long last gains features related to
cycle tracking and fertility. Using data entered or imported from a
third-party app, Health can now predict the start and end of a woman's
next three cycles and provide a notification when her period is
approaching. Similarly, it can predict fertility windows and pop up an
alert when one is approaching. Cycle Tracking, a companion Apple Watch
app, will make it easier to log menstruation and symptoms.

iOS 13's Health app also now tracks headphone audio levels and alerts
you if they reach dangerous levels. Another new Apple Watch
app---Noise---listens to the ambient sound levels around you and warns
you if they're getting too loud.

### Other iOS 13 Features

Those may be the big changes, but we can't resist sharing some more
subtle ones too:

-   Siri's voice is now generated entirely in software, making it sound
    more natural, especially while speaking longer phrases.

-   The HomePod can finally recognize different voices, giving everyone
    in your family personalized experiences.

-   You can set the Phone app to accept only calls from numbers in
    Contacts, Mail, and Messages, sending all others---and
    robocalls!---to voicemail.

-   A Low Data Mode helps reduce data usage over the cellular network or
    specific Wi-Fi networks.

-   You can now pair two sets of AirPods to a single iPhone if you and a
    friend want to listen to the same movie or music.

-   A new machine-learning option can slow the rate of battery aging by
    reducing the amount of time your iPhone spends fully charged.

-   Do Not Disturb While Driving will no longer turn on when you're
    using public transit.

### iPadOS 13 

Most features of iOS 13 apply to the iPad as well, apart from those that
are iPhone-specific, like the Health app. But iPadOS 13 is a superset of
iOS 13, so it adds features to the iPad.

It starts with a tighter icon grid on the Home screen to fit more icons,
and in landscape orientation, the Home screen can show Today View
widgets on the side.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2019/20190903So/image6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

Apple improved the iPad's multitasking capabilities in iPadOS 13 too.
You can have multiple apps in Slide Over---just swipe up to see all of
them or swipe along the bottom to switch between them. The big win in
Split View in iPadOS 13 is the capability to have multiple windows from
the same app open simultaneously, and it's also now possible to have a
window from the same app open in multiple spaces. The updated App
Switcher now shows all spaces (Split View combinations) too.

Safari has grown up in iPadOS 13, becoming a desktop-class browser. That
means it works better with complex Web apps like Google Docs,
Squarespace, and WordPress. It also offers per-site settings, the option
to save a set of tabs as bookmarks, a download manager, weak password
warnings, and 30 new keyboard shortcuts.

iPadOS 13 works with the new Sidecar feature in Catalina to let you use
an iPad as a Mac's second screen or graphics tablet (with an Apple
Pencil). You can use it either to extend your Desktop or to mirror a
Mac's screen, and it works either wired or wireless.

Speaking of the Apple Pencil, Apple has made it more responsive,
redesigned the tool palette, and provided a pixel eraser tool. You can
also now use an Apple Pencil to take screenshots, and even capture and
mark up an entire document, email, or Web page.

Phew! There's a lot to like in iOS 13 and iPadOS 13, but there's also a
lot to learn, so make sure you find some time to incorporate the new
features into your usage.