---
layout: post
date: '2020-07-21'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/three-connectivity-problems-remote-workers-are-having-during-the-pandemic/
published: true
title: Three Connectivity Problems Remote Workers Are Having During the Pandemic
description: Three Connectivity Problems Remote Workers Are Having During the Pandemic
blogimgpath: 20200702Th
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Router-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Router.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Router.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-Router.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
The pandemic has forced large numbers of those who are still
employed---nearly half the American workforce, by some estimates---to
work from home. And while that has actually improved productivity for
many people, partly due to eliminating time-consuming commutes, remote
work comes with its own challenges. Here are three of the top problems
we've been helping our clients solve. Get in touch if you're suffering
from these or other tech issues that are preventing you from working as
effectively as you would in your office.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, all these issues revolve around connectivity,
which can make them difficult to troubleshoot. For the average user, the
problem might seem to be video calls dropping out or email not working
reliably, when the real culprit is an overloaded AirPort Express Wi-Fi
gateway or a too-slow Internet connection.​

**Weak Wi-Fi**

When we set up an office Wi-Fi network, we use commercial-quality gear,
map out necessary coverage to avoid dead zones, and spec out the number
of access points to support the number of expected devices that will be
connecting. Needless to say, home Wi-Fi networks generally lack that
attention to detail, and many people rely on the substandard Wi-Fi
capabilities built into ISP-provided cable modems.

In the short term, you may be able to fix the problems by restarting
your Wi-Fi router, updating its firmware, eliminating interference from
a baby monitor or cordless phone, switching to an open Wi-Fi channel,
using the 5 GHz frequency instead of 2.4 GHz, or relocating the access
point to a more central location.

A more comprehensive fix often involves buying new Wi-Fi networking gear
that supports the latest and fastest standards and provides broader
coverage to more devices. A new Wi-Fi router such as the highly rated
[TP-Link](https://www.tp-link.com/us/home-networking/wifi-router/)
Archer 7 or Archer 20 might cost \$100--\$200, or if you need coverage
of a larger space, a mesh system like [Eero](https://eero.com/)
or Netgear's [Orbi](https://www.netgear.com/orbi/) lets you add
additional "beacons" or "satellites" to extend range without adding
Ethernet cable or fussing with complex networking setups.

​

**Slow Internet**

Generally speaking, Wi-Fi networks have a lot more bandwidth than
Internet connections---think of them as bigger pipes that can carry a
lot more water. So if you're frustrated by fuzzy video calls or large
downloads taking forever, the problem may be with your Internet
connection. Whenever you experience such problems, go to
[speedtest.net](https://www.speedtest.net/) and compare your
current download and upload speeds against what your ISP has promised.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200702Th/Speedtest-results.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Some solutions to poor Internet performance are simple. Most important
is to make sure nothing else on your network is consuming a lot of
bandwidth. For instance, get your kid to stop watching a 4K movie via
Netflix when you need to have a Zoom call. The traffic from that movie
will fill your pipe, leaving little room for the Zoom call's data. It
can also be worth restarting your cable modem, which may require power
cycling it.

Other solutions might involve working with your ISP to check the wiring
to your house---a slightly damaged cable can cause sporadic performance
problems that are tricky to track down. The ISP can also tell you if
your cable or DSL modem is current and working properly, and if not, a
replacement might restore full speed. Or you may just have an old
modem---ISPs usually wait for you to ask before swapping for a newer,
better one.

Of course, all this assumes your Internet plan provides sufficient
downstream and upstream bandwidth (the latter of which is necessary for
high-quality audio and video calls). You may simply need to spend more
money on faster speeds, which in turn may require a new modem or even
new cabling. ​

**VPN Connectivity**

Generally speaking, we're fans of virtual private networks (VPNs)
because they provide traveling and homebound users secure access to
servers and other network resources located behind a properly protected
office network. However, with the pandemic forcing so many people to
work remotely, some have found VPN access to their office servers to be
slow and unreliable.

When the VPN works fine for most people, those who are having trouble
can often fix the problems by reinstalling and reconfiguring their VPN
software. Never underestimate the utility of a clean start.

For organizations where one person needs much more access to the server
than everyone else, sending the server home with that person has helped.
For a more general file access solution, others have had good luck
trading the server for a cloud-based file sharing service like
[Box](https://www.box.com/),
[Dropbox](https://www.dropbox.com/), [Google
Drive](https://gsuite.google.com/essentials/), or [Microsoft
OneDrive](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/onedrive/online-cloud-storage).
These services allow multiple members of a workgroup to access the same
set of files.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200702Th/Dropbox-desktop-app.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


People work on local copies of the files, and changes are synced back to
the original (and down to all other copies) on every save. Because
you're working on a local copy of the file, there are no performance
issues. On the downside, it's possible for two people to modify the same
file at the same time, causing a conflict.

To reduce the likelihood of conflicts, try establishing a policy whereby
people work on a file only after moving it into a Checked Out folder and
appending their initials to the filename. That way, everyone else knows
they shouldn't open the file and who has it. When that person is done,
they move the file back out of the Checked Out folder and remove their
initials---in essence, checking it back in.

At the end of the day, many of us are feeling our way into the best ways
to stay productive while working from home. Although these issues are
the most common we've seen, the solutions tend to be highly specific to
each user's situation. Good luck navigating these new waters, and feel
free to get in touch if you need help.
