---
layout: post
date: '2020-12-18'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/take-a-few-minutes-to-lock-down-your-facebook-privacy-settings/
published: true
title: Take a Few Minutes to Lock Down Your Facebook Privacy Settings
description: Take a Few Minutes to Lock Down Your Facebook Privacy Settings
blogimgpath: 20201202Ta
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-FBPrivacy-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-FBPrivacy.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-FBPrivacy.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-FBPrivacy.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Even beyond its often controversial behavior in the 2020 US presidential
election, Facebook continually makes news headlines for its numerous
privacy and security problems. Most notable, of course, were the [50
million Facebook profiles gathered for Cambridge
Analytica](https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2018/mar/22/cambridge-analytica-scandal-the-biggest-revelations-so-far)
for the 2016 election. Closer to home, the company pushed a VPN service
in the Facebook iOS app that [collected all your mobile data traffic for
Facebook](https://techcrunch.com/2018/02/12/facebook-starts-pushing-its-data-tracking-onavo-vpn-within-its-main-mobile-app/).
After pressure from Apple, Facebook pulled the VPN but reused it for the
[Facebook
Research](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onavo#Facebook_Research)
program, which paid users as young as 13 for their data. Apple caused
that to be shut down too.

Facebook has also [silently shared user data with other tech
giants](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/18/technology/facebook-privacy.html),
[received confidential health data from other
apps](https://www.theverge.com/2019/2/22/18236398/facebook-mobile-apps-data-sharing-ads-health-fitness-privacy-violation)
without users' informed consent, and [stored hundreds of millions of
Facebook and Instagram
passwords](https://techcrunch.com/2019/04/18/instagram-password-leak-millions/)
in an unencrypted form, among much else. The [criticisms of Facebook go
on and on](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criticism_of_Facebook).

Because of this, many have encouraged Facebook users to delete their
accounts. That even includes [the billionaire co-founder of the WhatsApp
messaging
service](https://www.theverge.com/2018/3/20/17145200/brian-acton-delete-facebook-whatsapp),
which Facebook bought in 2014. If you're done with Facebook, you're
welcome to deactivate or even delete your account. [Facebook provides
instructions](https://www.facebook.com/help/250563911970368) for both
actions. Deactivating your account just makes you invisible on Facebook,
whereas deleting your account may eventually (up to 3 months) result in
most of the data being removed.

The problem is that Facebook can be useful. It may be the only
connection you have with certain friends or family members, and many
informal groups use Facebook for meetup logistics. For many, losing
access to Facebook would hurt real-world relationships and activities.
Plus, lots of companies have Facebook pages, and taking those down might
result in a loss of business from customers who would find out about the
firm only through Facebook. What to do?

If you're a business, the most sensible approach is to keep your
Facebook page but avoid relying on it. Remember, Facebook is not your
friend. Back in 2018, Facebook said it would be [prioritizing posts from
friends and family over public
content](https://newsroom.fb.com/news/2018/01/news-feed-fyi-bringing-people-closer-together/),
which is a nice way of saying that Facebook is deprecating
business-related posts. So make sure you have a Web site that you
control, and make sure that customers can easily find it and contact you
through it. It's also a good idea to offer customers multiple ways to
contact you, particularly via email.

On a personal level, there are two ways to think about privacy on
Facebook: limiting the information you share with other people on
Facebook and limiting the information that you're willing to provide to
Facebook. If Facebook doesn't have data about you, it can't sell it to
the highest bidder, let it be harvested by hackers, or use it in ways
you might find creepy.

Facebook's Privacy Checkup walks you through many of Facebook's privacy
settings:

-   On the Mac, sign in to the Facebook website, click the down-pointing
    arrow button on the top-right corner of the page, click Settings &
    Privacy, and click [Privacy
    Checkup](https://www.facebook.com/privacy/checkup/).

-   In Facebook's iOS app, tap the hamburger button in the bottom-right
    corner, scroll down to and expand Settings & Privacy, tap Privacy
    Shortcuts, and then tap "Review a few important privacy settings."

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ta/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

For each of the five tiles in the Privacy Checkup, work through the
steps to make sure you're comfortable with the settings. Although all of
them are important, pay special attention to "Your data settings on
Facebook," which lets you control what apps could leak data about you,
whether Facebook can use facial recognition to identify you in photos
and videos, and if Facebook can know your precise location.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ta/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

If you don't want to go through the entire Privacy Checkup just to check
a single setting, look at Facebook's [Privacy Settings and
Tools](https://www.facebook.com/settings?tab=privacy) in the overall
Settings collection (accessible from that dropdown menu on the
Mac---choose Settings & Privacy > Settings > Privacy, or from the iOS
app's hamburger button---tap Settings & Privacy > Settings > Privacy
Settings). This page also provides a link to help you review the posts
you're tagged in, removing those that you don't want on your timeline.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ta/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Beware that you could also be sharing information about everyone you
know---Facebook loves to know who you know, even if they don't have
Facebook accounts. You can prevent this, but doing so requires two
steps, one on Facebook's [Manage Your Invites and Uploaded
Contacts](https://www.facebook.com/mobile/facebook/contacts/) page and
another on Messenger's [Manage Your Uploaded
Contacts](https://www.facebook.com/mobile/messenger/contacts/) page.
Just delete them all. Otherwise, you're giving away your contacts'
personal information without their permission.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ta/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


To ensure that contact uploading doesn't happen again, in the Facebook
iOS app, tap the hamburger button, scroll down, and then tap Settings &
Privacy > Settings > Upload Contacts (at the bottom) and make sure the
switch is off. In the Messenger app, tap your avatar in the upper-left
corner, tap Phone Contacts > Upload Contacts, and make sure it's off.

Also, in the iPhone Facebook app, tap the hamburger button again and
then Settings & Privacy > Settings > Location, and turn off all the
settings. Facebook doesn't need to know everywhere you go.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ta/image6.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


If you're perturbed by the way Facebook's iOS app is trying to capture
your contacts and locations, you could delete it from your devices and
rely instead on the Facebook website, which can't access as much
information about you. To make it easier to open, in Safari, visit
facebook.com, tap the Share button, and then tap Add to Home Screen in
the share sheet.

Let us leave you with one thought. *Always* assume that anything you
post to Facebook or allow Facebook to have access to could end up in the
hands of companies who want to exploit you or on the front page of your
local newspaper... or the *New York Times*. Nothing on Facebook is ever
private---Facebook has shown that it isn't trustworthy or reliable---and
the best way to ensure confidential or embarrassing information doesn't
leak inadvertently is to avoid posting it to Facebook in the first
place.