---
layout: post
date: '2020-04-23 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/tips-for-setting-up-a-comfortable-and-effective-home-work-space/
published: true
title: Tips for Setting Up a Comfortable and Effective Home Work Space
description: Tips for Setting Up a Comfortable and Effective Home Work Space
blogimgpath: 20200401Ti
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-home-office.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-home-office.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2020/Header-home-office.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Vast numbers of people who previously reported for work at an office
every day are now working from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic. That's
sensible, and if you're included in that group, there was probably even
a little thrill of "I get to work from home!" at first. But as those who
have telecommuted for years know, it's not as simple as settling down on
the couch with your laptop. Here are a few tips.​

**Make a Dedicated Work Space, If Possible**

Particularly if you're not home alone, you'll want to create a space
that's dedicated to working. Otherwise, it's difficult to focus on work
instead of what's happening in your home. A spare bedroom with a door is
ideal, of course, because it lets you avoid the fridge, the TV, and your
family, who may also be trying to work or do schoolwork at home.

But if you don't have an extra room, or if you need to share it with
your spouse and kids, think about ways you can create individual spaces,
perhaps with bookcases or makeshift curtains.

Either way, your goal is to avoid seeing and hearing others. Your
partner's activities can be distracting, and listening to your kids
discussing a school project will make focusing on your work all the
harder. Sound isolation can be difficult to achieve in an open room, but
that's what earbuds are for. Those with noise-canceling capabilities,
like the AirPods Pro, would be best.

Pay attention to lighting as well. Putting your monitor against a window
probably won't work well during the day, and overhead lighting can cause
glare.​

**Set Up an Ergonomic Working Environment**

It's unlikely that your home office furniture is equivalent to what you
have at work, but if you're going to be putting in full workdays at
home, you need to pay attention to ergonomics.

Many tables are slightly too high to sit at comfortably with your feet
flat, your hips at a 90-degree angle, and your hands floating
comfortably above the keyboard, with your elbows at a 90-degree angle.
Do what you can to achieve that position; if necessary, raise the chair
and add a footstool.

Good, inexpensive chairs with height adjustments can be hard to find,
though the [IKEA
Flintan](https://www.ikea.com/us/en/p/flintan-office-chair-vissle-black-60336844/){:rel="nofollow"}
is well-reviewed and only about \$80. A small pillow can provide lumbar
support if necessary. Try to make sure the arms, if present, are
low---you should use them only when not typing.

It's difficult to achieve good ergonomics while working on a laptop, or,
even worse, an iPad because you're almost always looking down too far.
With a MacBook, you can achieve the ideal sightline either by attaching
a large monitor that you can position at the right height or by raising
the MacBook and using a separate keyboard and mouse or trackpad at the
proper typing height.​

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200401Ti/Ergonomics-diagram.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />


**Potentially Upgrade Your Internet Connection**

Even beyond whatever apps you need to do your work, it's likely that
you'll end up doing a fair amount of videoconferencing. You may need to
increase the throughput of your Internet connection, and it's important
to remember that upload and download speeds are separate. You usually
have much higher download speeds, so focus on the upload speed when
evaluating your plan.

Apps vary in their bandwidth requirements, but you can consider a 1
megabit per second (Mbps) upload speed a safe minimum, with 3 Mbps being
sufficient for nearly any video calls you'll need to make. The download
speed should be at least equivalent to the upload speed, but that will
almost always be true.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200401Ti/Skype-bandwidth.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

If your current connection isn't fast enough, contact your Internet
service provider. More throughput will usually cost more, but ideally,
your ISP can just change some settings to upgrade you. In some cases, a
new cable modem or similar network hardware may be necessary, and in the
worst case, you may need a new cable from the street. Whatever you do,
try to avoid any plan that comes with a bandwidth cap!

Don't be afraid to compare prices if you have multiple providers, and
even if you have sufficient bandwidth now, it may be worth calling to
see if plan prices have dropped since you subscribed.​

**Upgrade Wi-Fi Hardware**

Finally, if the only place in your home that you can work isn't well
served by your current Wi-Fi router, it might be time to upgrade. That's
particularly true if you're working on old AirPort base stations from
Apple.

For creating a Wi-Fi network that has the most coverage, look into mesh
networking gear like [Eero](https://eero.com/){:rel="nofollow"} and
[AmpliFi](https://amplifi.com/amplifi-hd){:rel="nofollow"}. The beauty of mesh
networking is that you can add another router or beacon to extend the
network without complicated setup.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200401Ti/eero-system.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

That said, contact us before ripping your network apart, because on-site
visits to fix problems may be difficult or impossible for a while.