---
layout: post
date: '2020-11-19'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/big-sur-blog-revised/
published: true
title: "BigSur Is Here, Our Official Stance, and Recommendations"
description: "BigSur Is Here, Our Official Stance, and Recommendations"
blogimgpath: 20201119Bi
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-BigSur-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-BigSur.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-BigSur.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-BigSur.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
With the release of the next OS from Apple, macOS 11 Big Sur, you may be
tempted to upgrade right away and enjoy the newest features and
sparkling new look of Apple's newest OS. With all the new features, it's
tempting to hit that "Upgrade" button right away, but Grove Technologies
is recommending that you wait until version 11.0.5 is released, which
usually takes a few months. New versions of operating systems can be
sluggish and buggy, they can slow down your Mac, and there are always
compatibility issues with some apps. Waiting until version 11.05 allows
Apple the time to work out the bugs and make sure Big Sur is mature
enough for use in business and enterprise. Big Sur also has many "under
the hood" changes that could have a big impact on your work.

If you are using an older Mac (older than 6 years) it may be best to
skip the update to Big Sur and Catalina all together, or upgrade your
hardware. Since Apple's switch to the APFS File system in 10.14 many
clients have been complaining about a sluggish HD or spinning ball when
trying to complete menial tasks. This is because the APFS file system
was not designed with spindle drives in mind. Spindle drives are the
old-fashioned "moving parts" type of HD that, until recently, Apple
allowed budget conscious users to install in their Macs. Unfortunately
the new file system caused some major performance issues. If you opted
for an SSD in your Mac, this issue will not affect you. Before upgrading
to Big Sur from older OS's, be sure to reach out to Grove Technologies
about the possibility of upgrading an older spindle drive to an SSD.

Although it's not a new feature for Big Sur, Apple's 100% reliance on
64bit applications may have put your favorite app out to pasture. Be
sure to check the build of your favorite application to make sure they
are running in 64bit. Go to the Apple menu, choose About This Mac, then
click the System Report... button. From the system report, scroll down
to Software in the sidebar, then select Applications. When you select an
individual application, you will see a field titled 64-bit on the right
side.

Just in the opening days of the Big Sur release many users have
complained about the stability of their system. [Kernel Panics, spinning
wheels, crashing. This can be avoided by not "upgrading"](https://appleinsider.com/articles/20/11/16/apples-macos-big-sur-may-be-bricking-older-macbook-pro-models) but doing a
clean wipe and reinstall of the OS. Especially if upgrading from more
than 2 versions behind. This does however mean a longer upgrade process.
If you think you will need a fresh install of Big Sur instead of the
upgrade, be sure to mention that during your support call with Grove
Tech or ask your support Rep which is right for you.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Got mine bricked while doing a clean install. MBPr 13-inch mid-2014.<br>I tried to unplug the I/O board (as suggested in Reddit and Apple Support Community) and it booted fine and resumed installation. It was theorized that the install process somehow damaged the I/O board.</p>&mdash; Federick Bon Javier (@Bon_Javier) <a href="https://twitter.com/Bon_Javier/status/1328037258054619141?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 15, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Lastly, users of 2013/2014 Macbook Pros have reported that in some cases
the [Big Sur update has bricked their Mac
completely](https://www.engadget.com/macos-big-sur-bricks-old-macbook-pro-215433723.html),
making their Mac inaccessible. While other reports cite [that some
applications on BigSur are allowed to circumvent vpn
connections](https://threatpost.com/some-apple-apps-on-macos-big-sur-bypass-content-filters-vpns/161295/)
a huge issue for those that rely on those for privacy protections. All
efforts to boot into Recovery mode to wipe and reload are futile. The
only option has been to take the Mac into the Apple Store. This seems
like a worst case scenario, but with Big Sur being so new and untested,
issues like this are sure to come to the forefront.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Some Apple apps bypass some network extensions and VPN Apps. Maps for example can directly access the internet bypassing any NEFilterDataProvider or NEAppProxyProviders you have running üòí</p>&mdash; Maxwell (@mxswd) <a href="https://twitter.com/mxswd/status/1318305284524183552?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 19, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Once you have checked all the boxes and you are ready for the upgrade,
the main question is: Will my Mac support the upgrade? [If you are
currently running Catalina and your Mac is manufactured after 2013](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211238) its
probably a YES. ANY MacPro (black cylinders) and any iMac Pro can
upgrade, as well as Macbooks 2015 or later. Macbook Pro's, Macbook Airs
2013 or later, iMacs and Mac Mini's 2014 or later. Big Sur has the
largest installation file so far with a whopping 12 Gigs! Make sure you
have a minimum of 100G of HD space available prior to upgrading.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">In Big Sur Apple decided to exempt many of its apps from being routed thru the frameworks they now require 3rd-party firewalls to use (LuLu, Little Snitch, etc.) üßê<br><br>Q: Could this be (ab)used by malware to also bypass such firewalls? ü§î<br><br>A: Apparently yes, and trivially so üò¨üò±üò≠ <a href="https://t.co/CCNcnGPFIB">pic.twitter.com/CCNcnGPFIB</a></p>&mdash; patrick wardle (@patrickwardle) <a href="https://twitter.com/patrickwardle/status/1327726496203476992?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 14, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Grove Technologies wants this upgrade to be as easy and painless as
possible when you are READY. Please don't hesitate to reach out to any
of our Mac Experts for questions about how to proceed!
