---
layout: post
date: '2020-10-26'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/disaster-recovery-best-practices-for-small-businesses/
published: true
title: Disaster Recovery Best Practices for Small Businesses
description: Disaster Recovery Best Practices for Small Businesses
blogimgpath: 20201026Di
tags:
  - Cybersecurity
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-DisasterRecovery-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-DisasterRecovery.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-DisasterRecovery.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-DisasterRecovery.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
When disaster strikes, your company needs to be ready. As the pandemic
has shown in 2020, many small businesses were not ready for the scope
and impact that a disaster may cause in terms of disruption and
unavailability too critical systems and essential employees. Many small
businesses were forced to scramble at the last minute to accommodate
remote work solutions with the bare minimum preparation or experience to
support continuity requirements. Small businesses should take into
account the types of disasters that they may occur or impact their
company. Here are a few key tips that companies large and small should
prepare for to help navigate through an unplanned disaster.

The first and foremost tip all businesses should undertake is to have a
documented disaster recovery plan sometimes called BCDR. A BCDR defines
the critical steps for recovery procedures needed to ensure business
continuity can be restored as quickly as possible to meet the critical
objective points. At a bare minimum a small business should conduct a
business impact analysis to determine which assets are the most critical
and essential to support needed operations.

A small business should keep an up-to-date hardware and software
inventory list which provides a complete listing of hardware and
software applications in their priority order. This is essential to have
documented to ensure that all assets are properly tracked and managed so
that they could be replaced in the event of a disaster. In addition to
the inventory listing a small business should have the vendor technical
support contract information and phone numbers needed in order to
quickly reach out for support in the event of a disaster.

Another good starting point for a small business is to properly define
your maximum downtime and data loss. A recovery time objective is the
maximum allowed time for critical operations essential to your business.
You should define this time allotment to determine how long can you go
without being able to perform business functions. A recovery point
objective is the point at which essential operations are restored and
you can resume critical operations. It is often only to determine that
the recovery point objective align to the critical business functions
that your small business performs. If you can recover only critical
functions and resume other operations later rather than waiting on all
operations to be restored this will help get you back in working order
faster.

One of the other most practical disaster recovery practices is having an
off-site or cloud based backup strategy. A small business should have a
cloud-based backup solution such as AWS S3, Backupify, Google Drive,
etc. to back up both company data as well as software applications that
are required for the business. Modern operating systems provide built in
cloud base backup support or provide agents that can be installed to
automatically perform this function.

Disasters or unplanned emergencies can happen to any business. Our
consultants at Grove have the right skills and technology experience to
provide guidance and support in preparing a disaster recovery process
tailored to your organization. Reach out to the folks at Grove today for
a consultation.
