---
layout: post
date: '2020-10-09'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/why-your-small-business-should-care-about-cybersecurity/
published: true
title: Why Your Small Business Should Care About Cybersecurity
description: Why Your Small Business Should Care About Cybersecurity
blogimgpath: 20201008Wh
tags:
  - Cybersecurity
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Care-About-Cybersecurity-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Care-About-Cybersecurity.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Care-About-Cybersecurity.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-Care-About-Cybersecurity.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
In 2017 61% of small businesses in the United States suffered some kind
of cyber-attack according to [a
report](https://csrps.com/Media/Default/2017%20Reports/2017-Ponemon-State-of-Cybersecurity-in-Small-and-Medium-Sized-Businesses-SMB.pdf) by
the Ponemon Institute. This number reflects an over 50% increase year to
year in cybersecurity assaults on U.S. small businesses.  Even more
discerning is that an August,
2020 [report](https://www.interpol.int/en/News-and-Events/News/2020/INTERPOL-report-shows-alarming-rate-of-cyberattacks-during-COVID-19) from
Interpol is that 43% of small to mid-size businesses do not have any
cybersecurity plans whatsoever.  This includes no endpoint detection,
malware detection, firewalls/basic defenses, and incident
response/contingency plans.

There are many reasons why small businesses need cybersecurity ---
privacy, client trust, systems availability, financial data protection,
data integrity and the longevity of the business in the face of a
changing threat landscape.  For a small business owner, the topic of
cybersecurity can seem overwhelmingly complex, but a basic understanding
of cybersecurity is considered essential for running a business in 2020,
particularly a business with any kind of online presence or engagement
with its customers.  Here are some common sense and helpful
cybersecurity controls that any small business should ensure they have
employed.

Two-Factor or Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) should be employed for
login systems that support it to increase the security needed for
confidential systems.  MFA is typically employed on many your cloud
providers services such Google Apps, AWS Web Services, Azure/Office 365
that require a second password or code to be used for authentication in
addition to your username and password.

Data backups should be enabled on key information systems that support
essential business functions.  What were to happen in the event of a
company laptop or tablet with critical business information breaks or is
lost/stolen?  Without a data backup service, information on that device
would not be recoverable.  Companies should look at using a free or paid
for data backup cloud service provider.  Luckily, many of these services
run on devices automatically without user interaction.

Boundary protection is essential for protecting the boundary of your
network and infrastructure.  Hackers are constantly looking for company
devices that are exposed to the internet with open services that are
easily exploitable.  A router with a combination hardware firewall and
IDS system enabled can go a long way to ensure network traffic is
properly blocked and filtered entering and leaving your organization. 

Endpoint protection are those software service such as Anti-Virus and
Malware that run on your laptops, tablets, and phones to ensure
nefarious software is not installed and exploited on company assets. 
Endpoint protection includes services like Microsoft Defender and
Symantec Endpoint Protection that are free or small cost that provides
ernmous security benefits.

Cybersecurity threats are great and can be overwhelming for a small
business.  Grove is here to help.  With extensive experience in security
architecture and engineering services, our Grove consultants can work
with you on prioritizing the cybersecurity needs tailored specifically
for your business.  Schedule a call with one of our consultants today!
