---
layout: post
date: '2020-08-20'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/want-to-make-your-iphone-and-apple-watch-easier-to-read-/
published: true
title: Want to Make Your iPhone and Apple Watch Easier to Read
description: Want to Make Your iPhone and Apple Watch Easier to Read
blogimgpath: 20200803Wa
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Apple-Watch-Bold-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Apple-Watch-Bold.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Apple-Watch-Bold.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-Apple-Watch-Bold.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
If you have 20/20 vision or are still wondering why your parents have
reading glasses, count yourself lucky. But if you\'re like many
people---over 60 percent of the population by some estimates, including
most people over 45---reading the tiny text on your iPhone or Apple
Watch might be impossible if you don't happen to have the right pair of
glasses handy.

What we really want is a screen that corrects automatically for its
user\'s individual vision problems---research into such technology has
taken place at UC Berkeley and the MIT Media Lab, but real-world
products are probably years off. Until then, those of us who need a
little help seeing our screens will have to rely on features Apple has
built into iOS and watchOS. Try these options:​

**Increase Text Size**

Although not every app supports it, Apple has a technology called
Dynamic Type that lets you set your preferred text size. In Settings \>
Display & Brightness \> Text Size, you'll find a text size slider, and
you can see how it affects text in the iOS interface by moving around in
the Settings app or looking at Mail.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200803Wa/iPhone-Dynamic-Text.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


If you want a size even larger than is available from the Text Sizes
screen, you can get that in Settings \> Accessibility \> Display & Text
Size \> Larger Text. Turn on Larger Accessibility Sizes, and the size
slider adds more options.​

**Bold Text**

Sometimes, the problem isn't so much the size of the text, but how light
it can be. In Settings \> Display & Brightness, there's a switch for
Bold Text. Turn this on, and all the text on the iPhone will become
darker and easier to read.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200803Wa/iPhone-Bold-Text.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Where Bold Text really shines for many people is on the Apple Watch. You
turn it on in the Accessibility settings in the iPhone's Watch app. It
does require restarting your Apple Watch, but that's a minor
inconvenience. As you can see in the normal (left) and bold (right)
examples below, enabling Bold Text can make a real difference when
reading text on your wrist.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200803Wa/Apple-Watch-Bold-Text.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
​

**Display Zoom**

If you have difficulty with aspects of the screen other than text, you
can use iOS's Display Zoom feature to expand everything by a bit. The
trade-off is that you'll see less content on the screen at once, of
course, but that's a small price to pay if it makes your iPhone easier
to use.

Display Zoom is available on every iPhone since the iPhone 6s except the
iPhone X, iPhone XS, and iPhone 11 Pro.

To enable Display Zoom, go to Settings \> Display & Brightness \> View.
Once there, you can compare three sample screens---most notably, you'll
lose a row of icons on the Home screen when zoomed. If you think zoomed
view will be easier to read, as in the right-hand screenshot below, tap
Zoomed and then tap Set. Your iPhone has to restart, but it's quick.
Unfortunately, if you decide to switch back to standard view, you may
need to rearrange your Home screen icons again.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200803Wa/iPhone-Display-Zoom.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
​

**Zoom**

The iPhone's full Zoom feature is particularly useful in two situations.
First, it's easy to invoke and dismiss if you need a quick glance while
wearing the wrong pair of glasses. Second, if Display Zoom doesn't
magnify the screen as much as you need, the full zoom may do the job.

Turn it on in Settings \> Accessibility \> Zoom and zoom in by
double-tapping the screen with three fingers. By default, the Zoom
Region is set to Window Zoom, which gives you a magnifying lens that you
can move around the screen by dragging its handle on the bottom.

Tap the handle to bring up controls that let you zoom out, switch the
region to Full Screen Zoom (which can be harder to navigate), resize the
lens, filter what you see in the lens (such as grayscale), display a
controller for moving the lens, and change the zoom level. To get back
to normal view, double-tap with three fingers again.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200803Wa/iPhone-Accessibility-Zoom.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The Apple Watch features a cut-down set of zoom controls that you can
access in the iPhone's Watch app, in Accessibility \> Zoom. All you can
do on the Apple Watch is double-tap with two fingers to enable or
disable zoom, or drag with two fingers to scroll around while zoomed.
Honestly, it's pretty tricky on the tiny Apple Watch screen, but if you
need it, you need it.

So, if you want to be able to use your iPhone and Apple Watch more
easily when your reading glasses aren't handy, try the features
described above and find the right mix for your eyes.