---
layout: post
date: '2020-02-25 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/learn-how-to-examine-your-iphones-battery-usage/
published: true
title: Learn How to Examine Your iPhones Battery Usage
description: Learn How to Examine Your iPhones Battery Usage
blogimgpath: 20200203Le
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-iPhone-open-showing-battery-photo.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-iPhone-open-showing-battery-photo.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2020/Header-iPhone-open-showing-battery-photo.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
A common question we hear is, "Why is my iPhone/iPad battery draining so
fast?" Luckily, Apple provides tools that help you see exactly how your
iPhone uses its battery over the last 24 hours and---with less
detail---over each of the last 10 days. Plus, you can tweak settings
that will improve battery life, both in the here-and-now and for as long
as you have your iPhone. To access these tools, go to Settings \>
Battery.​

**Useful Battery-Related Options**

Before we get into what you can learn from the Battery screen, there are
two options worth noting:

-   First, on the main screen, you'll find the Low
    Power Mode switch. If you're worried about running out of power
    before you can recharge on a particular day, enable Low Power Mode.
    iOS automatically offers to enable it if your battery drops to 20%,
    and that's a good idea unless you can plug in soon. Low Power Mode
    mostly disables background activity like mail fetching and photo
    syncing. (If you want to enable Low Power Mode regularly, make that
    easy by adding it to Control Center via Settings \> Control
    Center \> Customize Controls.)
-   Second, tap Battery Health, and in that screen,
    enable Optimized Battery Charging. It lets iOS 13 learn from your
    schedule to ensure that your iPhone spends less time fully charged
    unnecessarily, which can cause the battery to age more quickly.
    Leave this option off if you don't charge on a regular schedule.

​

**About That Maximum Capacity Percentage**

Whenever we hear complaints about iPhone batteries, the first place we
look is in the Battery Health screen to make sure the battery is
healthy. Apple says that iPhone batteries are designed to retain up to
80% of its original capacity after 500 charges. The higher the Maximum
Capacity number, the better. Usually, anything above 90% is OK, although
we start to hear of problems when the Maximum Capacity is in the upper
80s, and numbers below 85% are fairly likely to cause problems. The only
solution to a battery with a low Maximum Capacity is replacement;
contact us for our advice on the best way to do that.​

**Identifying Battery Hogs**

Assuming the battery's Maximum Capacity is high enough, the next place
to look for what might be causing excessive battery drain is in the
Battery Usage By App section of the Battery screen; look below the
graphs, and tap Show Activity for more
details.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200203Le/Battery-graphs.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

Scrutinize the entries at the top because they've used the lion's share
of your power. In the screenshot above, No Cell Coverage (which causes
the iPhone to waste power searching for cell towers) was the worst
offender. You can't do anything about that (unless it's indicative of
putting the iPhone somewhere it can't receive a signal or a failing
cellular radio).

For the apps underneath, make sure they're not working too much in the
background unnecessarily. "Unnecessarily" is key---if you see Photos at
the top of your list and Show Activity reveals a lot of background
activity, it's probably related to it uploading or downloading a lot of
images from iCloud Photos. But if you can't imagine why a particular app
is sucking down precious power, it's time to force quit the app or power
cycle the iPhone. And if the problem continues, it might be time to
reset the iPhone and restore from backup, just to clean things up.​

**Analyzing Battery Usage**

For figuring out which app might be causing unusual battery drain, it's
usually best to keep the time frame in the Last 24 Hours, but if you're
trying to track down a pattern of app behavior, it can be useful to
switch to the Last 10 Days using the toggle above the graphs.

Most people don't realize these graphs aren't just pretty pictures. You
can tap in the graphs to select 1-hour chunks of time in the Last 24
Hours graphs, or 1-day chunks in the Last 10 Days graphs. When you do
that, the Battery Usage By App list changes to focus on just the apps
used in the selected time period. That's helpful for tracking down
exactly what was happening when the battery drain took place.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200203Le/Battery-use-by-app.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

We'd like to say that you can use these tools to figure out nearly
anything that's causing your battery to drop precipitously, but there
are issues that the Battery screen doesn't expose. For instance, after
you upgrade to a new version of iOS or switch to a new iPhone,
background tasks will likely work hard for a while indexing all the
content on the device. Most issues like that should go away quickly,
though.

Regardless, it's worth looking in the Battery screen whenever you feel
that your battery life isn't what it should be. Whether it's a rogue app
or the revelation that you need a new battery, it will provide some
guidance. And if you're still in the dark, let us know, and we'll see
what we can do to help.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200203Le/Low-Power-Mode-Optimize-Charging.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />