---
layout: post
date: '2020-05-05 00:00 -0500'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/audiovisual-tips-for-better-videoconferencing/
published: true
title: Audiovisual Tips for Better Videoconferencing
description: Audiovisual Tips for Better Videoconferencing
blogimgpath: 20200501Au
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Videoconferencing-tips-photo-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Videoconferencing-tips-photo.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Videoconferencing-tips-photo.jpg
link: /img/app-images/2020/Header-Videoconferencing-tips-photo.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
Whether for work or socializing, we're all spending a lot more time in
video calls these days. But---surprise!---it turns out that many of our
group video calls could be more pleasant, less embarrassing, and overall
better if we follow a few basic audiovisual tips.​

**Make Sure You Have Decent Lighting**

Natural light is best, but room light is generally fine too, especially
if it's coming from the side. Overhead light isn't quite as flattering,
but whatever you do, avoid light that comes from underneath your face or
you'll look like an old-time movie villain. Also, avoid sitting in front
of a window because the bright light behind you will make you look way
too dark. Pull a shade or try to put your computer against the window so
the light hits your face instead.​

**Arrange for a Decent Background**

You may not have many choices for where your computer is located, and
thus for what's behind you when you're on a video call. If you're using
Zoom or Skype, you can employ a virtual background (pick one that's
appropriate for the context, and for goodness sake, don't use an
animated background). Otherwise, make sure that what's behind you is
tidy and wouldn't embarrass you if the people on the call were to visit
in person. Or, take it up a level and put a pleasing arrangement of art
or photos on the wall behind you. Even if they are too small to be seen
well, they will break up a monotonous blank wall.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200501Au/Zoom-Skype-background-options.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="800" />

**Wear Appropriate Clothing**

Yes, it's tempting to schlub around all day in pajamas or ratty old
sweats. Resist the urge and wear the same type of clothes you'd put on
if you were meeting with these people in person. That includes
pants---if you get up in the middle of the call without thinking, you
don't want to advertise your taste in boxers. You don't want your boss
and colleagues to have a mental image of you as a total slob. For bonus
points, avoid tops that are bright white, black, or have distracting
patterns.​

**Think Like a Movie Director**

Particularly if you need to use a phone, tablet, or laptop to
participate in a video call, think about your camera angles. It's best
to have the camera at roughly the same height as your face, if possible,
so if you can avoid it, don't put your laptop in your lap or hold your
phone at your waist. And if you're using a phone, don't walk around such
that the changing background distracts everyone else.​

**And Like a Movie Star**

It's sometimes hard to remember that everyone can see you even though
they're not in the room, but you'll come off as more alert, confident,
and engaged if you sit up straight, get close enough to the camera so
your face fills the screen, and smile. Seriously, you're on Candid
Camera, so act like it. You'll almost always have a thumbnail that shows
what you look like, so make sure you like what you see. Oh, and don't
touch your face repeatedly.​

**Look at the Camera, Not the Other Participants**

This one is tough. The camera is usually at the top center of your
screen, so if you look anywhere else, it seems like you're avoiding eye
contact. It can make you look shifty or inattentive. But it's hard not
to look at the other people or at your own video thumbnail. The best
trick is to resize and position your video window so the person you're
most likely to look at is right under the camera.​

**Pay Attention and Don't Multitask**

Look, we get it---a lot of meetings are boring. But it's both rude and
distracting to the speakers if you are clearly doing something else or
worse, leaving and coming back. Focus on the screen, and show that
you're paying attention by nodding your head, smiling, and all the other
little things you'd do if the meeting were taking place in person. If
you truly can't stay engaged, turn off your audio and video so no one
has to see and hear you. If you need an excuse for that, say that your
Internet connection is being a little wonky, so you want to cut down on
bandwidth usage.​

**Mute Your Mic When Not Talking**

The more people on a call, the more important this tip is. All
videoconferencing apps have a Mute button you can click so others in the
call aren't distracted by you coughing or sneezing, your children
playing in the other room, or other extraneous noise. Just remember to
unmute before you start talking. It's hard to remember at first, but
you'll get good at it.

All this may seem like a lot to think about, but once you get your
environment set up properly, you'll be a bright spot in the video grid
at your regular meetings. And then maybe you can forward this article to
your family, friends, and colleagues so they can up their video game
too.