---
layout: post
date: '2020-07-02'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/macs-switching-from-intel-chips-to-apple-silicon—answers-to-your-questions/
published: true
title: "Macs Switching from Intel Chips to Apple Silicon—Answers to Your Questions"
description: "Macs Switching from Intel Chips to Apple Silicon—Answers to Your Questions"
blogimgpath: 20200625Ma
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Tim-Silicon-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Tim-Silicon.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-Tim-Silicon.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-Tim-Silicon.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
At Apple's Worldwide Developer Conference keynote, the company dropped a
bombshell: in the future, Macs will no longer be powered by Intel chips
but will instead rely on custom-designed Apple chips. As surprising as
this is, the company has made such massive transitions twice before:
first in 1994 with the move from Motorola's 68000 chips to IBM's PowerPC
platform, and again in 2006 with the jump to processors from Intel. Here
are answers to the main questions we've been hearing.

### What is "Apple silicon"?

For many years now, Apple has created its own chips to power the iPhone,
iPad, iPod touch, and Apple TV. These chips, the A series, are based on
a platform called ARM, though Apple took pains to avoid saying that
during the keynote. Of all Apple's products, only the Mac continues to
use processors from Intel.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Ma/image2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Apple said it would be creating chips specifically to power Macs,
although they'll be part of the same chip family used in iOS devices.
That makes sense since macOS and iOS share a great deal of code under
the hood.

### Why is Apple making this transition?

There are three main reasons:

-   **Performance:** With its ARM-based A series of chips, Apple has
    achieved high levels of performance per watt. When chips run faster,
    they consume a lot more power, which cuts into battery life and
    produces a lot of heat. By creating its own chips, Apple can tweak
    the designs to the sweet spot of performance and power consumption
    for any given Mac---laptops trade processing power for longer
    battery life, whereas desktops have fewer tradeoffs. Plus, Apple can
    build special technologies, like advanced power management and
    high-performance video editing, into its chips to enhance those
    capabilities in macOS.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Ma/image3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Profit:** Apple didn't mention this in the keynote, but it's a big
    deal. Intel processors have high profit margins, and Apple would
    prefer to keep that money instead of paying it to Intel.

-   **Control:** Apple CEO Tim Cook has famously said, "We believe that
    we need to own and control the primary technologies behind the
    products we make." With Apple making its own chips, its product
    roadmaps are within its control, rather than being subject to
    Intel's schedule, capabilities, and whims.

### When will the first Macs with Apple silicon appear?

Apple said that we'd see the first Mac with Apple silicon by the end of
2020. If past performance is any indication, expect it in December.

The company did not say what type of Mac it would be, although the
Developer Transition Kit hardware that developers can rent from Apple is
a Mac mini with the same A12Z chip that runs the latest iPad Pro models.
Other likely possibilities include the MacBook Air, MacBook Pro, and
iMac.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Ma/image4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Is it better to wait for Macs with Apple silicon or buy Intel-based Macs while I can?

There are two schools of thought here. Some recommend buying the first
models that appear after a major chip change because Macs with the
previous chips may have a shorter effective lifespan once the transition
is complete. Others prefer to buy the last models with the earlier chips
under the assumption that the first new Macs might have unanticipated
problems.

For the longest lifespan, wait for new Macs with Apple silicon. But if
you're worried that the first models out will have teething pains,
invest in the last Intel-based Macs.

### How long will Apple keep selling Intel-based Macs?

The company said that it anticipates releasing new Intel-based Macs for
roughly 2 years and that it has some exciting new models in the
pipeline.

### How long will Apple continue to support Intel-based Macs?

Apple didn't commit to a specific length of time but said it would be
releasing new software and supporting Intel-based Macs "for years to
come." In the previous processor transition from PowerPC to Intel, Apple
maintained the Rosetta translation environment for over 5 years.

In other words, if you buy an Intel-based Mac today, it should have an
effective lifespan of at least 3--5 years. Businesses often refresh
their Macs on such a cycle, so that's not unreasonable.

### Will my existing software run on a Mac with Apple silicon?

Happily, yes! Apple announced Rosetta 2, which will ship with macOS
before Macs with Apple silicon appear. Rosetta 2 automatically
translates existing Intel-based apps and can even dynamically translate
apps with just-in-time code. If that all sounds like mumbo-jumbo, don't
worry---Apple said that Rosetta 2 will be completely transparent to the
user.

We hope that's true, but Rosetta 2 will probably work only with 64-bit
apps that work in 10.15 Catalina. Old 32-bit apps that don't run in
Catalina are unlikely to be supported, nor will low-level software like
kernel extensions. Plus, with translated software, performance is always
a question.

### Will I have to upgrade my apps for Macs with Apple silicon?

Although existing apps should still run, thanks to Rosetta 2, developers
will be recompiling their apps to take advantage of all the capabilities
of Apple silicon, so where upgrades are available, you'll generally want
to take advantage of them. Native apps running on Apple silicon should
enjoy better performance.

### Will I still be able to run Windows software in Boot Camp or a virtualization app?

Maybe. Apple talked about virtualization on Macs with Apple silicon and
even showed off Parallels Desktop running Linux (versions of which run
on ARM chips) but said nothing about Windows.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Ma/image5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

There are some ARM-based PCs, including Microsoft's Surface Pro X, that
come with Windows 10 for ARM. So our guess is that Boot Camp is history,
but you'll be able to run Windows 10 for ARM in Parallels Desktop or
VMware Fusion. That may be sufficient if your needs are mainstream, but
Windows 10 for ARM has [a long list of
restrictions](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4521606/windows-10-arm-based-pc).

### Are there any other advantages to Macs with Apple silicon?

Indeed! Apple said that Macs with Apple silicon would be able to run all
iPhone and iPad apps. During the keynote, the company demoed a few such
apps running in their own windows on a Mac with Apple silicon. Whether
this is game-changing depends on your needs, but given the millions of
apps for the iPhone and iPad, it could be compelling.

### Is this transition a good move?

Although there will undoubtedly be some bumps along the way, we think it
is. Macs with Apple silicon should be faster and have better battery
life than comparable Macs with Intel-based chips. It's possible that
Apple will lower prices too, given the savings from not buying expensive
chips from Intel. And while the capability to run iPhone and iPad apps
won't float everyone's boat, it could be useful.

And if nothing else, it's yet another example of how we live in
interesting times.