---
layout: post
date: '2020-12-04'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/overwhelmed-by-apps--use-ios-14s-app-library-to-manage-your-home-screens/
published: true
title: Overwhelmed by Apps- Use iOS 14s App Library to Manage Your Home Screens
description: Overwhelmed by Apps- Use iOS 14s App Library to Manage Your Home Screens
blogimgpath: 20201202Ov
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-AppLibrary-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-AppLibrary.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-AppLibrary.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-AppLibrary.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
Many of us have been using iPhones for years, and apps we bought or
downloaded long ago molder in corners of our Home screens. Even if you
haven't played Flappy Bird in years, its pixelated icon still stares
glumly at you every time you peer at its Home screen, and it's far from
alone. To find out how many apps you have, go to Settings > General >
About and look next to Applications. So where are they all?

Unless you're one of those highly organized people who keeps every app
in a folder (we're jealous), you probably have quite a few Home screens
holding all those apps. The first one or two may be nicely laid out,
with your most frequently used apps close at hand. But after that? We
can never find little-used apps on the fourth or sixth Home screen.
Instead, we search for such apps---swipe down on a Home screen and type
a few characters from its name. But wouldn't it be nice to see an
alphabetically sorted list of all your installed apps?

That's what iOS 14's App Library provides, though it may not be evident
at first glance. (Sadly, the App Library isn't available in iPadOS 14.)
A new screen to the right of your last Home screen, the App Library
collects all your apps into folders. At the top, Suggestions includes
four suggested apps based on time, location, or activity, and Recently
Added shows the apps you've downloaded lately. The rest of the folders
organize apps by category. In a folder grid, tapping a large icon opens
that app, while tapping the group of four small icons in the lower-right
corner opens the folder. When in jiggle mode, you can also drag an app
out of the App Library to a Home screen or tap the X badge on an app
icon to delete it.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ov/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Since you can't rename any of the App Library folders or move apps
between them, most of them aren't that useful for finding something
quickly, though you may enjoy browsing in them. However, if you tap the
App Library search field at the top, it displays a lovely alphabetical
list of all the apps installed on your iPhone. Finally! You can tap a
letter on the right to jump to that spot in the list (D in the left-hand
screenshot below), or enter a couple of characters to filter the list by
name and category (which is why a search for "Flight" also finds travel
apps like Kayak and Expedia in the right-hand screenshot).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ov/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Perhaps most important, you need to understand that the App Library
always contains all the apps installed on your iPhone. If you delete an
app from the App Library, you're deleting it from your iPhone.

Now that you know what the App Library is, what does it enable you to
do?​

### Remove Apps from Your Home Screens

Because all apps are accessible from the App Library, they no longer
need to be on a Home screen. That means you can take seldom-used apps
off your Home screens and access them from the App Library. To do this,
first touch and hold an empty spot on any Home screen to enter jiggle
mode. Tap the minus sign **--** badge on any app ➊, and then tap Remove
from Home Screen ➋. That's effective but slow, since you have to remove
apps one at a time.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ov/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Here's a faster approach. In jiggle mode, start dragging an app with
your thumb. Then, with another finger, tap other apps to add them to the
stack. Once you've collected all the apps you want to remove from the
Home screen, drag them to the right (or swipe left on the Home screen
with another finger) until you get to the App Library. Then lift your
thumb.

If you'd rather sweep your apps under a virtual rug, you can hide entire
Home screens. They still exist; you just don't see them until you reveal
them again. (You could also create a Home screen that contains just
travel-related apps and show it only when you're on vacation.) When in
jiggle mode, tap the lozenge that indicates the number of Home screens
(➌ above) and then tap the circle ➍ under each Home screen thumbnail to
show (checked) or hide (empty) it. Tap Done when you're finished.​

### Organize Your Main Home Screens

Before the App Library, creating focused Home screens was a nightmare
because you had no idea where the apps you wanted to bring together
might be located. With the App Library, that's no longer an issue. Try
these steps to create a new Home screen that contains a particular
subset of your apps.

In the App Library, tap the search field to display the alphabetic list of all apps.

1.  Touch and hold the app you want to add to a Home screen.

2.  Keep your finger down without moving; you should feel a tap of
    feedback and a menu will appear.

3.  Continue holding down on the app without moving your finger; a
    second or two later, iOS will display the rightmost Home screen.

4.  Lift your finger to drop the app; it will show up in a few seconds.

5.  Swipe back to the App Library and repeat these steps.

That approach is effective but a bit slow. Here's a faster way. Enter
jiggle mode, go to the App Library, navigate into a folder, and start
dragging an app with your thumb. iOS will immediately send you to the
last Home screen, but use another finger to swipe left so you go back to
the App Library. Then navigate into a folder and tap desired apps to add
them to your stack. Once you've collected everything, swipe right with
your other finger to return to the last Home screen and lift your thumb
to drop all the apps.

Once you've populated the Home screen with your desired apps, rearrange
them as desired while still in jiggle mode. Remember that you can also
create folders by dragging one app onto another, and put apps in folders
by dragging them in.​

### Focus on Newly Downloaded Apps

The App Library also addresses the problem of what to do with newly
downloaded apps. Previously, they'd show up at the bottom-right of some
Home screen, but you couldn't always predict which one. In iOS 14, you
can now control that behavior in Settings > Home Screen. If you select
Add to Home Screen, iOS will continue to add apps that you download to a
Home screen. But if you prefer a clean screen, select App Library Only
instead.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ov/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />


In the latter case, newly downloaded apps appear in the Recently Added
folder on the main App Library screen, with the three most recent apps
represented with large icons. Remember that you can tap the large icons
to open the associated app or tap the four small icons to open the
folder. The folder shows only the eight most recently downloaded apps,
sorted alphabetically. And, of course, all the new apps also appear in
the App Library's alphabetical list and in the appropriate category
folders.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20201202Ov/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


If you've been suffering under the cognitive load of numerous
unorganized Home screens, think about how you can use the App Library in
iOS 14 to streamline your iPhone experience. You might even find that
you like having just a couple of Home screens and leaving everything
else in the App Library.