---
layout: post
date: '2020-06-29'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/what-we-can-expect-from-macos-11-big-sur-ios-14-ipados-14-and-watchos-7/
published: true
title: "What We Can Expect from macOS 11.0 Big Sur, iOS 14, iPadOS 14, and watchOS 7"
description: "What We Can Expect from macOS 11.0 Big Sur, iOS 14, iPadOS 14, and watchOS 7"
blogimgpath: 20200625Wh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - articles
fpimage: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-MacOS-BigSur-fp.jpg
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-MacOS-BigSur.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-MacOS-BigSur.jpg
link: /assets/img/app-images/2020/Header-MacOS-BigSur.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
Every year at its Worldwide Developer Conference, Apple lays out its
roadmap for the next releases of each of its operating systems. The
COVID-19 pandemic forced Apple to record its keynote presentation ahead
of time rather than having it live, but the company doesn't seem to have
tempered its ambitions for macOS 11.0 Big Sur, iOS 14, iPadOS 14, and
watchOS 7.

Apple never promises ship dates this early in the process, but it's a
good bet that we'll see these operating system updates in September or
October, given past release dates.

Here's what to look forward to!

### macOS 11.0 Big Sur

Yes, you read that right---the macOS version number finally goes to 11,
and it's named after the Big Sur region of California. Its changes fall
into three main categories: design, updates to essential apps, and
support for Apple silicon (see our other article about that).

Apple says that [macOS 11.0 Big
Sur](https://www.apple.com/macos/big-sur-preview/) embodies
the biggest change in design since the release of Mac OS X in 2001. It
still looks familiar but changes nearly every aspect of the visual
interface. Window frames are gone, title bars have shrunk and been
joined by icon-focused toolbars, and visual complexity has been reduced.
Windows and icons are both more rounded than before, and the Dock now
sits slightly above the bottom of the screen, much like in iPadOS.

Big Sur also gains a Control Center along the lines of the one in iOS
and watchOS, with the twist that you can pin your most-used controls to
the top of the menu bar. Apple also revamped Notification Center with
features from iOS, making notifications more interactive, grouping them
by thread or app, and letting you do more with widgets.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Apple rewrote all its apps to ensure that they'd run natively on Macs
with Apple silicon, but some received more substantial changes as well.
Messages allows threading in group conversations, lets you \@mention
people like in Slack or Twitter, and allows you to pin conversations to
the top of your list.

Safari exposes more of its privacy-protecting features, allowing you to
view a privacy report that shows trackers blocked in the last 30 days,
warns you if your account passwords may have been compromised in a data
breach, and can translate pages from a number of languages.

Maps provides cycling directions, can include charging stations when
routing electric car owners, and provides Apple Guides with travel
suggestions. Many other apps, including Photos, Music, Podcasts,
Reminders, and Voice Memos receive smaller enhancements.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Remember that new Macs with Apple silicon will require Big Sur, both to
support the new Apple processors and for its Rosetta 2 translation
environment that makes it possible to run existing Intel-based apps on
Macs that lack Intel processors.

macOS 11.0 Big Sur officially supports the following Macs. A few
Catalina-capable models from 2012 and 2013 have been dropped.

-   MacBook (early 2015 and later)

-   MacBook Air (mid 2013 and later)

-   MacBook Pro (mid 2013 and later)

-   Mac mini (2014 and later)

-   iMac (2014 and later)

-   iMac Pro (2017 and later)

-   Mac Pro (2013 and later)

### iOS 14

Just as macOS Big Sur is the most significant design refresh since Mac
OS X, [iOS 14](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-14-preview/)
brings a huge change to the look and feel of iOS, thanks to a revamped
Home screen. Apple has finally acknowledged that most people know what's
on the first Home screen page and maybe the second, and everything after
that is a jumbled mess.

To address that problem, iOS 14 introduces the App Library, which is the
rightmost Home screen page. It collects all your apps (below left). It
groups apps by Suggestions, Recently Added, and curated categories like
Creativity, Entertainment, and Social. Inside each group, all your apps
appear alphabetically for easy access. With the App Library, it's easy
to add apps to the Home screen and remove Home screen pages you don't
need anymore.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Even more radical is how iOS 14 lets you break widgets out of Today view
and embed them on the Home screen in a variety of sizes (above right).
No more opening a weather app just to see the temperature---a widget can
give you a quick overview of the conditions and forecast. Or a stock
widget can show you just how much AAPL has gone up since the
announcement.

You'll also notice instantly that Siri no longer takes over the entire
screen, instead showing you an icon that indicates it's listening and
putting the results in panels on top of whatever app you're using (below
left). Similarly, call notifications will be presented as a standard
notification banner rather than obscuring the app you were using (below
right). Voice dictation now happens on the device, which should improve
responsiveness and privacy. Siri can do translations now, and a new
Translate app makes it possible to have a conversation with someone in
an unfamiliar language.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Needless to say, there are many other smaller changes. Both Messages and
Maps gain the features mentioned previously for macOS. New "App Clips"
let you use a tiny bit of an app without installing the whole thing,
which is ideal for renting a scooter without having its app, for
instance. For those who watch video on an iPhone, iOS 14 now supports
picture-in-picture. And for some people, the most welcome change will be
the option to specify your own default Web and email apps.

iOS 14 works with the iPhone 6s and first-generation iPhone SE and
later, and with the seventh-generation iPod touch.

### iPadOS 14

As you'd expect, [iPadOS
14](https://www.apple.com/ipados/ipados-preview/) gains all
the iOS 14 changes, including the App Library, widgets on the Home
screen, and so on. But Apple has also spent some time making iPadOS work
more like macOS, redesigning and adding sidebars to many apps, putting
toolbars at the top of the screen, and adding pull-down menus to apps
like Files. Apple also overhauled the iPadOS search experience, trading
the previous full screen look for a simple gray bar that---you guessed
it---looks a lot like the macOS Spotlight search interface.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

The other massive change for iPadOS is Scribble, Apple's marketing name
for its new handwriting recognition feature. Anywhere you can enter
text, you'll be able to write with your Apple Pencil and have your
writing converted to typed text (in English or Chinese, at least). All
transcription happens on the device for performance and privacy reasons.
You can also select handwritten words by circling them, scratch words to
delete them, touch and hold between words to add a space, and more.

In Notes and other apps that support handwriting, you'll be able to
select words or sentences with double and triple taps. A shortcut
palette lets you perform common actions without using the onscreen
keyboard, including Copy As Text, which lets you copy handwritten text
and paste as typed text. Other Apple Pencil gestures include dragging to
select and adding or deleting space between sentences or paragraphs.
Finally, shape recognition lets you sketch a rough shape and have it
automatically converted to a perfectly drawn version.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

iPadOS 14 works with the fifth-generation iPad and later, the iPad Air 2
and later, the iPad mini 4 and later, and all models of the iPad Pro.

### watchOS 7

Unsurprisingly, [watchOS
7](https://www.apple.com/watchos/watchos-preview/) doesn't
deliver as major changes as in Apple's other operating systems---there
simply isn't room to do as much. Nonetheless, it offers some nice
enhancements, starting with new watch faces. For instance, Chronograph
Pro has a tachymeter with room for customization, and Xâ€‘Large lets you
show a single rich complication. You can also add multiple complications
from the same app to a face. Once you've created the perfect face, you
can share it with friends by texting it, emailing it, or posting a link
online.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image8.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

The most notable change in watchOS 7, though, is sleep tracking. Wear
your Apple Watch while you sleep, and it will automatically go into
sleep mode, turning on Do Not Disturb and preventing the screen from
lighting up (but a tap shows a dim time display). watchOS 7 then uses
the Apple Watch's accelerometer to detect sleep states and reports on
them when it wakes you up in the morning, either with gentle sounds or
taps on your wrist. It will even ask you to charge your Apple Watch
before bed if it needs more juice to get through the night, and prompts
you to put it on the charger when you wake up so it can get through the
day.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image9.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

The most timely addition to watchOS is handwashing detection and
encouragement. When the Apple Watch's motion sensors and microphone
detect that you're washing your hands, it starts a 20-second timer and
encourages you to keep washing through to the end. Plus, when you arrive
home after being out, the Apple Watch reminds you to wash your hands.
Stay safe out there!

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20200625Wh/image10.gif" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

To acknowledge the level that people use the Apple Watch for fitness,
Apple has renamed the Activity app to Fitness and added additional
workouts for core training, functional strength training, and dance.
Plus, you can now use Maps to get on-wrist cycling directions. Siri can
translate into ten languages, and watchOS 7 now does on-device dictation
for faster and more reliable requests.

watchOS 7 requires at least an iPhone 6s running iOS 14 and an Apple
Watch Series 3 or later.