---
layout: post
date: '2021-07-22'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/reduce-your-email-load-with-three-features-in-apples-mail-mute-block-and-unsubscribe/
published: true
title: " Reduce Your Email Load with Three Features in Apple's Mail: Mute, Block, and Unsubscribe"
description: " Reduce Your Email Load with Three Features in Apple's Mail: Mute, Block, and Unsubscribe"
blogimgpath: 20210705Re
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-iosMail.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-iosMail.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
Complaining about getting too much email is like complaining about bad
traffic---we brought it upon ourselves, and while it's impossible to
escape entirely, it's worth knowing how to reduce it. Apple is fully
cognizant of the issue, too, and has built features into the last couple
versions of Mail---on the Mac, iPhone, and iPad---to help out. Here are
three that you might find useful in different situations: mute, block,
and unsubscribe.​

### Mute

It's a huge email conversation about the annual holiday party at work,
but you can't go, and more people keep weighing in. However, since it's
just a ton of addresses on the Cc line, there's no way to remove
yourself, even though you don't need to be notified of all the
back-and-forth.

To help you quiet a too-chatty conversation, Apple added the Mute
feature to Mail. On the Mac, select the conversation and choose Message
\> Mute or click the Mute button in the toolbar. On an iPhone or iPad,
touch and hold the message until you get a popover, then tap Mute. You
can also swipe left on the message, tap More, and tap Mute.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Messages will continue to flow in, but if you normally get notifications
of Mail messages, you won't get notifications for the muted
conversation. In Mail, a little bell icon with a slash through it
reminds you that the conversation is muted. To unmute a conversation,
repeat these steps, but pick Unmute instead.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />


Do you never want to see those muted messages at all? You can discard
them automatically. On the Mac, in Mail \> Preferences \> General,
select "Archive or delete muted messages." In iOS and iPadOS, go to
Settings \> Mail \> Muted Thread Action, where you can choose between
Mark as Read and Archive or Delete.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The "archive or delete" wording may seem confusing, but Apple lets you
choose whether "discarding" a message archives it (removes it from your
Inbox) or deletes it (moves it to the Trash mailbox). On the Mac, look
for that setting in Mail \> Preferences \> Viewing \> Move Discarded
Messages Into. In iOS and iPadOS, it's a per-account option in Settings
\> Mail \> Accounts \> *accountName* \> Account \> Advanced, under Move
Discarded Messages Into.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Block

Muting is about conversations, not people. But what if you never want to
see email from a particular person ever again? Perhaps it's an angry
ex-housemate, your embezzling ex-business partner, or someone who just
won't stop forwarding politically offensive memes. For such people,
Apple provides blocking.

On the Mac, open a message from the offending person, hover the pointer
over their name, click the down-pointing arrow, and choose Block
Contact. In iOS and iPadOS, tap the person's name so it turns into a
blue link, tap it again to reveal their contact card, tap Block this
Contact, and confirm your decision. Should you change your mind, repeat
the steps and choose Unblock.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


All that changes immediately is that Mail puts a banner at the top of
the message that says "This message is from a blocked sender." However,
Mail also provides a button or link to preferences that offer more
options. On the Mac, they're in Mail \> Preferences \> Junk Mail \>
Blocked. In iOS and iPadOS, you'll find them in Settings \> Mail \>
Blocked Sender Options. You can choose between leaving blocked mail in
your Inbox or moving it to the trash.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image7.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Note that we used spam senders as examples here, but for actual spam,
you should instead use the Move to Junk command to mark it as spam and
train Mail's junk mail filter. Blocking is useful only for actual
people, and it works only on specific email addresses, so if someone can
send from another address, Mail won't know to block that address until
you block it too.​

### Unsubscribe

It's all too easy to end up on a bazillion mailing lists these days.
That may not be a problem if you find the messages useful and infrequent
enough so as not to be annoying. But if you order something online and
immediately start receiving two email blasts per week advertising new
products, you don't have to sit there and suffer.

What you shouldn't do, however, is use the Move to Junk command to mark
those messages as spam. If you have a legitimate business relationship
with the organization, they're not doing anything illegal by sending you
email, and marking their messages as spam might mistrain Mail's spam
filter to catch related mail you do want. It will also hurt their
deliverability rate unnecessarily, and while that's not your problem,
there is a better way.

Whenever Mail detects that a message is from a mailing list, it displays
a banner saying so, along with an Unsubscribe link. Click or tap it,
confirm your decision, and Mail sends an unsubscribe message from you to
the mailing list server.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image8.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Alas, between mailing lists not providing the necessary details and Mail
not being able to understand everything, this feature is a little weak.
When it works, it's great, but just because an Unsubscribe banner
doesn't appear doesn't mean you can't unsubscribe.

Whenever that happens, scroll to the bottom of the message and look for
an Unsubscribe link. Click it to visit a website where you can sign off.
Alas, as shown below, commercial mail from Apple itself seems to be
exempt from Mail's Unsubscribe banner, and the company has one of the
less obvious Unsubscribe links out there.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210705Re/image9.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


As helpful as muting and blocking can be, you'll get the biggest bang
for your buck from unsubscribing from mailing lists. Remember, you can
always find those companies on the Web should you wish to interact with
them again.