---
layout: post
date: '2021-06-08'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/the-ten-upcoming-mac-iphone-ipad-features-we-think-you’ll-most-like/
published: true
title: "The Ten Upcoming Mac, iPhone, iPad, Features We Think You’ll Most Like"
description: "The Ten Upcoming Mac, iPhone, iPad, Features We Think You’ll Most Like"
blogimgpath: 20210608Th
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-WWDCTWTWO.webp
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-WWDCTWTWO.webp
cta: 4
comments: true
---
At its [Worldwide Developer Conference
keynote](https://www.apple.com/apple-events/june-2021/) on June
7th, Apple shared details about what we can expect to see later this
year in [macOS 12
Monterey](https://www.apple.com/macos/monterey-preview/), [iOS
15](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-15-preview/), [iPadOS
15](https://www.apple.com/ipados/ipados-preview/), [watchOS
8](https://www.apple.com/watchos/watchos-preview/), tvOS 15, and
HomePod Software 15. It was a firehose of announcements, but one thing
became clear: Apple wants to spread its technologies across its entire
ecosystem of devices. Although each platform---Mac, iPhone, iPad, Apple
Watch, Apple TV, and HomePod---retains its unique qualities, nearly
every feature that the company announced works across as many platforms
as make sense.

Before we get into the ten features that we think you'll most like when
everything ships in September or October, we should note that Apple was
surprisingly silent on one topic: future Apple silicon chips. Many
observers had expected Apple to announce an M1X or M2 chip that would
power professional laptop and desktop Macs. We'll have to satisfy
ourselves with the impressive performance of the M1-based Macs we have
now and wait a little longer for whatever comes next.

On to the hot new features!

### Account Recovery and Legacy Contacts Simplify Recovering Account Data

It's all too common that people forget their Apple ID passwords and
can't access their accounts. Apple hopes to make that a little less
stressful with Account Recovery Contacts. Specify someone as your
Account Recovery Contact, and they'll be able to help you reset your
password and regain access to your account, with no need to call us or
Apple for assistance.

Also welcome will be the addition of Legacy Contacts. Once this feature
is available, everyone should make sure they have appropriate family
members or friends set as Legacy Contacts. Then, in the event of your
untimely death, your Legacy Contacts can access your account and
personal information. Using Legacy Contacts will be far easier than
having to provide the legal paperwork to Apple to [request access to a
deceased family member's
accounts](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208510).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

### FaceTime Gains Features That Make It Competitive with Zoom

During the last year, we've all spent vastly more time in
videoconferencing apps for work, school, and socializing. Alas, Apple's
FaceTime has been a weak entry in that market. With the features Apple
is now promising, however, it should compete well with the likes of
Zoom, Skype, and Google Meet. FaceTime will finally get a standard grid
view, blur your backgrounds with Portrait mode, and offer two microphone
modes: Voice Isolation to cut down on background noise (for standard
meetings) and Wide Spectrum to leave ambient sound unfiltered (for
performances, say). FaceTime will even be able to alert you when you're
talking but muted.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

More important yet is the fact that you'll finally be able to invite
Windows and Android users to FaceTime calls using standard Web links.
Non-Apple users will have to use a Chrome-based browser like Google
Chrome, Microsoft Edge, or Brave. Plus, when you create an event in
Calendar, you'll be able to make a Web link for the call that you can
share. And when it's time for the call, a Join button makes it easy to
get in.

### Universal Control Lets Macs and iPads Share a Keyboard and Pointing Device

With Sidecar in macOS 10.15 Catalina and iOS 13, Apple made it so you
could use an iPad as a secondary screen for a Mac. In macOS 12 Monterey
and iPadOS 15, Apple is taking that concept further. With Universal
Control, if you merely set a Mac and an iPad next to each other, you'll
be able to use the Mac's keyboard and mouse or trackpad to work between
the two devices (in fact, Universal Control supports up to three). No
setup is required---just move your pointer to the edge of the Mac screen
and push it "through" the edge to move it to the iPad screen. You can
even drag and drop content between devices.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Live Text Lets You Work with Text in Images

Have you ever taken a photo of something just to capture a phone number
or address? We have, for sure. Apple's new Live Text feature treats text
in images just like text you type, so you can use functions like copy
and paste, lookup, and translate. Live Text will work in Photos, of
course, but also in Quick Look, Safari, and Screenshot, and in live
Camera previews on the iPhone. It's an impressive use of image
recognition technologies.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Along the same lines, in Photos, you'll also be able to use the
information button on any photo to highlight recognized objects and
scenes and get additional information about them. Apple says you'll be
able to learn more about popular art and landmarks, plants and flowers,
books, and pet breeds.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Siri Gets Faster, More Reliable, More Private, and More Useful

Thanks to the ever-increasing power of the Neural Engine in Apple
devices, Apple says it will bring all processing of Siri requests onto
your device. That may not sound like a big deal, but it means that Siri
should work faster, more reliably, and more privately. It will be faster
because there's no need to send speech to and from Apple's servers for
processing. It will make Siri work more reliably when your iPhone
doesn't have strong cell service and enable offline support for many
types of requests. And Apple won't know what you're saying at all.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Other Siri improvements will include the capability to announce
reminders when you're wearing AirPods, improved conversation context so
you can refer to what you just asked, and support for controlling
HomeKit devices at specific times. HomeKit developers will even be able
to add Siri support to their products through a HomePod.

### Improved Multitasking Controls Come to the iPad

The big problem with Apple's multitasking options on the iPad has been
remembering how to use them. With iPadOS 15, Apple hopes to solve that
with a new menu that will appear at the top of apps, with buttons for
entering full screen, Split View, or Slide Over.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image8.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Apple also added a new multiwindow shelf that appears at the bottom of
the screen at launch and provides a Dock-like view of all the open
windows in that app. If you ignore it, it fades away quickly, but it
should help you remember which windows you have open and access them
quickly.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image9.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### The iPad Finally Gets the App Library and Home Screen Widgets

Last year, in iOS 14, Apple introduced the App Library and Home Screen
widgets. The App Library holds all your apps so you can declutter your
life by removing them from the Home Screen. And Home Screen widgets let
you add app-specific widgets that provide at-a-glance information.
Sadly, iPadOS 14 didn't include those features.

iPadOS 15 rectifies that oversight, adding both the App Library and Home
Screen widgets, complete with some larger widget sizes for the larger
iPad screen. They'll work just like on the iPhone. It's about time!

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image10.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Locate Lost AirPods Pro and AirPods Max with Find My Network Support

As it stands now, you can theoretically find AirPods using the Find My
app. However, it shows only the last position of the AirPods at a
general level, and you have to get within range of them to play a sound.
In the future, however, the AirPods Pro and AirPods Max will support the
Find My network, so other people's devices can report their location
generally, and once you get within Bluetooth range, you can play a sound
to locate them.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image11.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Hopefully, that will happen less often thanks to new separation alerts
that, when enabled, will alert you when you leave an Apple device,
AirTag, or Find My-compatible item behind.

### Private Relay Protects Safari Traffic for iCloud+ Subscribers

Apple has been adding lots of privacy-protecting features over the past
few years, but Private Relay goes even further to ensure that even your
ISP can't track where you go on the Web and sell that data to
advertisers. Private Relay encrypts your Safari traffic and passes it
through two Internet relays. No one---not even Apple---can then use your
IP address, location, and browsing activity to create a detailed profile
of you. Everyone who pays for extra iCloud storage will transition to
the new iCloud+ for the same cost and will get Private Relay for no
additional fee.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image12.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

While we're talking about iCloud, Apple also says that you'll be able to
get custom domain names for iCloud Mail addresses and invite family
members to use the same domain with their iCloud Mail accounts.

### Use AirPlay to Send Audio or Video to Your Mac

Many people have discovered how neat it is to use AirPlay to display
photos or videos from an iPhone or iPad on a TV attached to an Apple TV.
Macs could also broadcast their displays to an Apple TV. But what you
couldn't do is use AirPlay to send audio or video from another Apple
device to a Mac. With macOS 12 Monterey, that will become possible,
enabling you to use a Mac's large screen to play a video, share a
Keynote presentation, and more.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210608Th/image13.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Apple's upcoming operating system releases boast many other new
features, and we plan to explore more of them once everything ships in a
few months. We'll let you know when it's time to update!