---
layout: post
date: '2021-04-22'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/apple-announces-new-m1-based-24-inch-imac-ipad-pro-airtag-apple-tv-4k-and-more/
published: true
title: "Apple Announces New M1-Based 24-inch iMac, iPad Pro, AirTag, Apple TV 4K, and More"
description: "Apple Announces New M1-Based 24-inch iMac, iPad Pro, AirTag, Apple TV 4K, and More"
blogimgpath: 20210422Ap
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/header-imacm1.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/header-imacm1.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
On April 20th, Apple took to the Internet to stream its "Spring Loaded"
event. Pundits had been unable to figure out a theme based on the name,
but Apple was being blunt: the event was taking place in the spring, and
it was loaded with announcements.

With Apple CEO Tim Cook bookending the presentation---and doing a cameo
as a master thief at 37:26 into the presentation---the company announced
an M1-based 24-inch iMac, M1-based iPad Pro models, the long-rumored
AirTag item tracker, and an enhanced Apple TV 4K with a redesigned Siri
Remote. All these items can be ordered on Friday, April 30th, but some
won't ship until the second half of May.

More on these shortly, but briefly, Apple also unveiled the new [Apple
Card
Family](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2021/04/apple-introduces-apple-card-family-enabling-people-to-share-apple-card-and-build-credit-together/)
program, which allows two people to co-own an Apple Card and share it
with their children, complete with spending limits. And for those still
looking for a colorful iPhone 12 or iPhone 12 mini, it now [comes in
purple](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2021/04/apple-introduces-iphone-12-and-iphone-12-mini-in-a-stunning-new-purple/).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210422Ap/image2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### M1-Based 24-inch iMac Comes in Spring Colors

Apple has continued replacing Macs at the lower end of the product line
with new models featuring the company's homegrown M1 chip. While the
first Macs to get the M1---the MacBook Air, 13-inch MacBook Pro, and Mac
mini---didn't receive any design changes, Apple radically overhauled
things for the new M1-based [24-inch
iMac](https://www.apple.com/imac-24/).

At 11.5 mm thick, the 24-inch iMac is thinner than the original iPhone.
It comes in seven colors: green, yellow, orange, pink, purple, blue, and
silver. The back of the iMac---which is often visible, such as on a
receptionist's desk---is a bold, vibrant color, whereas the front uses a
muted version of the color and a light gray bezel. It looks like a
24-inch iPad clipped to an aluminum stand. It's so thin that there's no
room for a standard power jack, so it comes with an external power
adapter that includes an optional Ethernet jack.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210422Ap/image3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Behind the iMac's "chin" is the guts of the computer, most notably the
same M1 chip as in other M1-based Macs. Overall performance will be
stellar thanks to the M1's 8-core CPU and 8-core GPU, but you can tweak
the price/performance curve slightly by choosing a 7-core GPU instead
and by picking either 8 GB or 16 GB of unified memory.

The screen, which actually measures 23.5 inches diagonally, offers
4480-by-2520 resolution, making it a 4.5K Retina display, between the 4K
display on the now-discontinued 21.5-inch iMac and the 5K display on the
27-inch iMac. It's topped by a 1080p FaceTime HD camera that, with help
from the M1 chip's image signal processor---and advanced microphones and
speakers---should offer excellent out-of-the-box videoconferencing
quality.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210422Ap/image4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Apple introduced three new color-matched versions of the Magic Keyboard
as well. One adds dedicated keys for Spotlight, Dictation, Do Not
Disturb, Lock, and Emoji; the second trades the Lock key for the first
Touch ID sensor on a standalone keyboard; and the third includes both
Touch ID and a numeric keypad. They come with color-matched models of
the Magic Mouse, or you can upgrade to a color-matched Magic Trackpad
instead.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210422Ap/image5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Two models of the 24-inch iMac are available:

-   $1299 gets you that 7-core GPU, two Thunderbolt ports, 256 GB of
    storage that's upgradable to 1 TB, optional Gigabit Ethernet, and a
    standard Magic Keyboard. It's available in only blue, green, pink,
    and silver.

-   $1499 gets you the 8-core GPU, 256 GB of storage upgradeable to 2
    TB, two Thunderbolt ports and two USB 3 ports, standard Gigabit
    Ethernet, and a Magic Keyboard with Touch ID. And you can pick from
    all seven colors.

Our take is that the new 24-inch iMac is a fabulous Mac for a family,
student, or front-office worker where everyone will appreciate its
striking color and design. It may not offer everything a pro wants, but
the Intel-based 27-inch iMac remains available, and Apple will be
releasing even more powerful Macs based on Apple silicon for
professionals, likely later this year.

### M1-based iPad Pro Gains Thunderbolt and Liquid Retina XDR Display

Unlike the 24-inch iMac, there are no major industrial design changes in
either [iPad Pro](https://www.apple.com/ipad-pro/) model, but
Apple has made significant upgrades under the hood, most notably
switching from the previous A12Z Bionic chip to the M1 chip that now
powers an increasing number of Macs. The M1 chip offers roughly 50%
greater performance, significantly differentiating the 11-inch iPad Pro
from the highly capable fourth-generation iPad Air introduced late last
year.

Apple also updated the iPad Pro's port from USB-C to Thunderbolt/USB 4,
allowing users to take advantage of higher-performance hardware, such as
external storage devices and high-resolution external displays. You can
even connect Apple's Pro Display XDR at its full 6K resolution. As
welcome as Thunderbolt is, iPadOS could use enhancements to enable users
to take full advantage of it.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210422Ap/image6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

For those who need constant connectivity while out and about, the
cellular models of the iPad Pro now support 5G wireless networking,
including the millimeter-wave version that offers the greatest
throughput. Although 5G coverage is still extremely spotty, it's only
getting better, and supporting it will help future-proof these iPad Pro
models.

Both iPad Pro models also receive a new 12-megapixel Ultra Wide
TrueDepth camera on the front. Along with help from the M1 chip's
machine-learning capabilities, it enables a new feature called Center
Stage that recognizes you in video calls and pans and zooms to keep you
in the frame as you move around. It will work with FaceTime, of course,
and Apple says third-party services will also be able to support it.

Last but far from least is a new display for just the 12.9-inch iPad
Pro. Based on the technology behind Apple's $5000 Pro Display XDR, the
12.9-inch iPad Pro's Liquid Retina Display XDR is lit by more than
10,000 miniature LEDs, combined into nearly 2600 dimming zones. (The
previous model's screen had 72 LEDs.) The result is a display that's
brighter and offers more contrast than before, making it ideal for photo
or video editing. If you think screen quality is the deciding factor
between the 11-inch and 12.9-inch iPad Pros, we encourage you to compare
them in person with the same images or videos.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210422Ap/image7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Pricing has changed a little for the iPad Pros. The 11-inch model
continues to start at $799 with 128 GB of storage. However, the
12.9-inch model is $100 more expensive than previously, thanks to the
Liquid Retina XDR display, starting at $1099 for 128 GB. Both are
upgradeable to 256 GB ($100), 512 GB ($300), 1 TB ($700), or 2 TB
($1100), and note that the models with 512 GB and less come with 8 GB
of unified memory, whereas the 1 TB and 2 TB models have 16 GB of
memory. Adding 5G cellular now costs $200, up $50, although special
deals with AT&T, T-Mobile, and Verizon may reduce or erase that cost.

### Find Your Keys, Purse, or Backpack with an AirTag

The long-rumored [AirTag](https://www.apple.com/airtag/) has
finally appeared, promising to help us all stop misplacing our keys,
purses, backpacks, and more. An AirTag is a small disc that you put
inside or attach to something you might need help finding. Should that
item go missing, you use the Find My app on your Mac, iPhone, or iPad,
or in iCloud to locate the associated AirTag, just as you can use Find
My to locate missing Apple devices or find family members. The Find My
network leverages nearly 1 billion Apple devices to relay the location
of lost items back to you, all without compromising anyone's privacy.
Plus, Apple has built in alerts if someone tries to track you with an
AirTag.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210422Ap/image8.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

AirTags are 1.26 inches in diameter and .31 inches high---roughly the
size of four half-dollar coins---and run on a standard user-replaceable
CR2032 battery. They communicate with nearby Apple devices via Bluetooth
and Ultra Wideband, the latter of which works with an iPhone 11 or
iPhone 12 to provide Precision Finding that directs you to the exact
location of the AirTag. ("You're getting warmer...")

To make it easier to attach an AirTag to your keys or backpack, Apple
offers a variety of key rings and loops, including some [pricey Hermès
versions](https://www.apple.com/shop/select-airtag-hermes). We
anticipate third-party manufacturers will offer numerous alternatives.

A single AirTag costs $29, or you can buy a four-pack for $99. Apple
offers free engraving, although the company limits the emoji available
to prevent pictographic rudeness. We're looking forward to giving an
AirTag a try, assuming we can still find our keys when it ships on April
30th.

### Apple TV 4K Offers Enhanced Video and Redesigned Siri Remote!

After four years, Apple has finally updated the hardware inside the
[Apple TV 4K](https://www.apple.com/apple-tv-4k/), giving its
second-generation model a faster A12 Bionic processor, HDMI 2.1, and
802.11ax Wi-Fi 6 wireless networking. The speedier processor enables
playback of HDR and Dolby Vision video at 60 frames per second, and the
other hardware changes could enable new capabilities in the future, like
4K video at 120 fps.

In software, Apple added a new color calibration feature that lets you
use any Face ID-enabled iPhone running iOS 14.5 or later to calibrate
the colors on your TV; it will also be available to the Apple TV HD and
first-generation Apple TV 4K. Also new is support for
[Thread](https://www.threadgroup.org/What-is-Thread/Thread-Benefits),
a cross-platform mesh networking protocol for home automation devices,
which could play a role in the future of HomeKit.

But the big news is that Apple redesigned the much-reviled Siri Remote,
adding more buttons and reducing the emphasis on the touchpad surface.
The new Siri Remote features a circular clickpad controller with
five-way navigation, a touch-sensitive surface for swiping in the
middle, and a touch-sensitive outer ring that works as a jog control for
navigating within a video. It also features dedicated power and
mute---at last!---buttons for your TV. Finally, there's a new side
button for invoking Siri so you don't accidentally press it in the dark.
It has a rechargeable battery that should last for months. The only
thing lacking? The necessary hardware so you can use the Find My app to
ferret it out from inside the couch.

Apple is bundling the new Siri Remote with the new Apple TV 4K ($179
for 32 GB or $199 for 64 GB) and the old Apple TV HD ($149), and if
you already have an Apple TV HD or 4K, you can buy the new Siri Remote
by itself for $59.