---
layout: post
date: '2021-12-14'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/facetime-gains-cool-new-features-in-apples-latest-operating-systems/
published: true
title: FaceTime Gains Cool New Features in Apples Latest Operating Systems
description: FaceTime Gains Cool New Features in Apples Latest Operating Systems
blogimgpath: 20211203Fa
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-Facetime.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-Facetime.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
It's no exaggeration to say that videoconferencing went mainstream
during the pandemic. However, Apple's FaceTime didn't stack up well
against Zoom and others due to its emulation of the telephone call
experience, questionable interface decisions, and lack of cross-platform
compatibility. However, with iOS 15, iPadOS 15, and macOS 12 Monterey,
Apple has nearly brought FaceTime into feature parity with Zoom and
others and it has even added a few features that break new ground.​

### FaceTime Links

One of the smallest new features in FaceTime may be the most important.
No longer do you have to call others via FaceTime, an awkward approach
left over from the days of landlines. That's still possible, but it's
easier and more considerate to make and share a FaceTime link instead,
which lets others join your call when they're ready. FaceTime links make
it effortless to rejoin a call if you have to drop off or if something
goes wrong, and they simplify switching from one device to another. You
can share FaceTime links like any other Web link, through Messages,
email, discussion systems like Slack, or posting on a Web page.

To create a FaceTime link, launch the FaceTime app and use the Create
Link button in the upper left. If you're creating it in iOS 15 or iPadOS
15, you can add a name before copying or sharing the link in the share
sheet. In Monterey, clicking the button presents a sharing menu with
similar appropriate options.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


To join a call, all a recipient of the link has to do is tap or click
the link. If they're running one of Apple's latest operating systems,
the call will also appear in the FaceTime app, under Upcoming.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Either way, people joining the call get a preview window in which they
can adjust their video and mic settings. After they hit the Join button,
the organizer is notified that they're waiting and can add them to the
call. (That may seem like an unnecessary extra step, but it ensures
random trolls can't join FaceTime calls whose links have been shared
publicly.)

If you're scheduling a call, you can create a FaceTime link within an
event in Calendar. That's handy to make sure you have the link available
at the right time, to make it available on all your devices, and to let
others access it via a shared calendar. Use the Location or Video Call
field, and select FaceTime when it's offered. The event then gets a Join
button that makes it easy to access the call. (If you're sharing the
calendar with someone who isn't using one of Apple's latest operating
systems, they'll just see a link they can click.)

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Despite being associated with an event, such FaceTime links aren't
time-specific. You can start the call any time you want, and anyone else
can attempt to join it at any time, but they'll be able to get in only
if you as the organizer let them in. So it won't do them any good to
join before or after the scheduled time.​

### FaceTime Web App

FaceTime links are also essential for allowing FaceTime calls to include
those who aren't running Apple's latest operating systems. If you're
still on macOS 11 Big Sur or iOS 14, opening a FaceTime link switches to
Safari and opens the FaceTime Web app. That also works for those using
Android, Windows, or Linux, as long as they have a compatible Web
browser, which means Google Chrome or another Chrome-based browser like
Brave or Microsoft Edge. Firefox won't work.

For the most part, the FaceTime Web app works just like the native
FaceTime app, with the ability to change basic camera and microphone
settings and support for grid view. There are two notable limitations:

-   FaceTime Web app users can only join calls, not initiate them.


-   Advanced options like the mic modes and video effects aren't
    available.​

### Mic Modes and Video Effects

In an effort to catch up with the likes of Zoom, Apple added several
audio and video features to FaceTime. There are now three mic modes that
you can enable in Control Center during a call:

-   **Standard:** FaceTime does nothing special to the audio.


-   **Voice Isolation:** FaceTime focuses on your voice, working to
    eliminate non-vocal sounds and other background noise.


-   **Wide Spectrum:** FaceTime expands its attention to all the sounds
    in the room, which is essential for things like music lessons.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Although the equivalent Control Center button is labeled Video Effects,
there's only one at the moment: Portrait mode. It works exactly as it
does in the Camera app for photos, keeping you in focus and blurring the
background. Perhaps Apple will add other video effects in the future,
much like Zoom's virtual backgrounds and immersive sets. You can also
toggle Portrait mode by tapping the Video Effects button in your
FaceTime tile.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The Voice Isolation and Wide Spectrum mic modes, and the Portrait mode
video effect, are available only on iPhones and iPads that have an A12
Bionic chip or later, or an M1 chip. Similarly, they work only on
M1-based Macs, not older Intel-based Macs.​

### Grid View

When Apple first introduced FaceTime group calls, participants' tiles
would swim around on the screen, moving and expanding to indicate who
was speaking. It was dizzying. Happily, Apple finally listened to
annoyed users and has now introduced a simple grid view like every other
videoconferencing app on the planet.

Once there are four or more participants in a call on an iPhone or iPad,
a Grid button appears when you tap the screen to reveal the FaceTime
controls. Tap it to switch into or out of grid view. In Monterey,
there's an always-visible Grid button in the upper-right corner.​

### Screen Sharing for iPhones and iPads

As helpful as FaceTime links are, our favorite new feature of FaceTime
is screen sharing for those using an iPhone or iPad. (Macs can't
currently participate in FaceTime screen sharing but have their own
screen sharing capabilities, accessed through the Conversations menu in
Messages.) With a couple of taps, you can share your screen with someone
else, or they can share their screen with you, all while maintaining the
video call. For many remote workers, this feature is essential, whether
you are collaborating on a project or showing your work to your boss.
Another obvious use is remote tech support. If someone is having trouble
accomplishing something on their iPhone or iPad, you can see what's
going wrong live on a FaceTime call. And kids, no doubt, will find many
fun things to do together.

To share your screen during a FaceTime call, tap anywhere on the screen
to reveal the FaceTime controls, tap the screen sharing button on the
right, and tap the Share My Screen confirmation prompt. After a 3-second
countdown, others on the call can see your screen, even as you switch
away from the FaceTime app and use your iPhone or iPad however you want.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image7.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


While you're sharing your screen, a purple status icon reminds you that
others can see what you're doing. To stop sharing your screen, tap
someone's video tile to switch back to the FaceTime app and tap the
screen sharing button again.

When someone shares their screen with you, a Picture-in-Picture (PiP)
window of their screen appears. Tap it to expand it to the entire
screen, moving the FaceTime call video to its own PiP window. Tap that
FaceTime PiP window to return to the call. If you switch to another app,
as shown below, the shared screen returns to being a PiP window. If any
PiP window is in your way, you can drag it to another corner or swipe it
off the screen to the left or right to hide it entirely. A tab appears
to indicate the hidden PiP window; tap it to bring the window back.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image8.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### SharePlay

People will either love SharePlay or ignore it entirely. It enables
everyone on a FaceTime call to watch the same video or listen to the
same audio while continuing the conversation. The big caveat is that
everyone must have legal access to the content, which generally means a
subscription to whatever service is being used, whether that's Apple
Music, Apple TV+, Disney+, HBO MAX, or Paramount+. Currently, SharePlay
works only in iOS 15 and iPadOS 15 and on the Apple TV running tvOS 15.
It's slated to appear in a future version of Monterey, perhaps 12.1.

Initiating a SharePlay session is easy: simply navigate to Apple's TV or
Music app, or another app that supports SharePlay, and start playing
something. You may be asked if you want to play it for everyone or just
for yourself, or you may be told the content will play automatically.
Assuming everyone on the call has the necessary subscription, the audio
or video starts playing instantly.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image9.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


What's a little freaky about SharePlay is that, with one minor
exception, everyone is an equal participant. If you start playing
something, someone else can pause it or rewind it, say, and the video
will pause or rewind for everyone. The exception is that only the person
who started playing a video can stop it (tap the screen to reveal the
controls), although anyone can start playing something else to replace
it.

If you have an Apple TV, you can initiate video playback from the Apple
TV or move something that's already playing to the Apple TV. While
you're on a FaceTime call on your iPhone or iPad, press and hold the TV
button on the Apple TV's remote to open Control Center, and then select
the SharePlay button that appears there to get started.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20211203Fa/image10.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


With all these new features, it's time to rethink how you use FaceTime,
and that's especially true if you haven't been using FaceTime because it
lacked the features in some other videoconferencing app.