---
layout: post
date: '2021-02-11'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/want-an-early-warning-system-for-covid-19-infections-install-novid/
published: true
title: Want an Early Warning System for COVID-19 Infections Install NOVID
description: Want an Early Warning System for COVID-19 Infections Install NOVID
blogimgpath: 20210202Wa
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-NOVID.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-NOVID.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
With vaccinations underway, there's light at the end of the COVID-19
pandemic tunnel. But given the enormity of the task and the unknowns
surrounding coronavirus variants, we'll still be in this tunnel for some
time to come. Happily, there's a new app called
[NOVID](https://www.novid.org/) that, if you and your friends (and their
friends, etc.) install it, provides early warning as COVID-19 infections
creep closer in your personal network of connections. It's like weather
radar for disease.

Developed by a Carnegie Mellon University math professor, NOVID is a
free app for iOS and Android that relies on roughly the same smartphone
proximity detecting technique as the Apple/Google exposure notification
technology. If your phone can use Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or ultrasound to
detect another nearby phone with NOVID installed, the two phones record
that completely anonymous interaction.

However, where the Apple/Google technology notifies you only if you have
been directly exposed at some point in the past, forcing you to
quarantine and get tested, NOVID helps you look into the future and
evaluate your personal risk of being infected. That's because the
Apple/Google technology stops at 1 degree of separation---you only learn
about exposures to people with whom you have directly interacted, and
only well after the fact. NOVID goes way beyond that, tracking
infections out to 12 degrees of separation and showing you how far away
they are.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20210202Wa/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

Think about what that means. If a friend's father gets sick, you
probably wouldn't hang out with your friend until it was certain that
she wasn't also infected. That's 2 degrees of separation. Imagine 3
degrees of separation---another friend's spouse works in an office where
a colleague tested positive. That still feels pretty close, and you'd
probably take more precautions than normal with your friend.

Beyond 3 degrees of separation, however, it's unlikely you'd ever know
about infections. Plus, you would only learn about infections that are 2
or 3 degrees of separation away from you if everyone involved knows each
other. What if that 3rd-degree infection was a guy at a bar that an
appliance repair person chatted with several nights before fixing your
friend's dishwasher? That's where anonymous smartphone proximity sensing
comes in.

NOVID solves these problems by building your network of personal
interactions out to 12 degrees of separation, showing you both how many
connections and how many infections are at each level of your network.
As infections get closer, you can take more precautions to reduce your
chances of being exposed to the coronavirus.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20210202Wa/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />


What's most fun about NOVID is that its statistics show it working. It
tells you how many other NOVID users you meet each day, and tapping the
graph even tells you how NOVID detected their presence (ultrasound is
more accurate than Bluetooth, and Bluetooth is more accurate than
Wi-Fi).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20210202Wa/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />


NOVID also provides some community-level statistics if users choose to
provide the first three digits of their ZIP codes. You can see how many
people are in your greater ZIP code, how many cases are in the
community, the size of the average user's network, and even the iOS
versus Android breakdown.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/20210202Wa/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

The key to making NOVID useful is adoption, so here's our pitch. Install
NOVID and ask a couple of friends or family members with whom you come
into contact to do so as well. Then ask them to encourage a few of their
friends or family members to install it and keep recommending it. Think
of it as an early warning system that leverages the same kind of
person-to-person transmission exploited by the coronavirus itself. And
if a city---like [Santa
Fe](https://www.santafenm.gov/news/detail/stop_covid_with_novid_-_city_deploys_innovative_app)---or
a college campus---like [Georgia
Tech](https://covid-central.gatech.edu/app/novid)---were to recommend
NOVID more broadly, that would be a super-spreader event on the positive
side of the balance sheet!

We've all installed NOVID. Will you [join us](https://www.novid.org/) in
building a network for community-wide early warning of approaching
COVID-19 infections?