---
layout: post
date: '2021-09-14'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/when-should-you-upgrade-to-macos-12-monterey-ios-15-ipados-15-watchos-8-and-tvos-15-/
published: true
title: "When Should You Upgrade to macOS 12 Monterey, iOS 15, iPadOS 15, watchOS 8, and tvOS 15?"
description: "When Should You Upgrade to macOS 12 Monterey, iOS 15, iPadOS 15, watchOS 8, and tvOS 15?"
blogimgpath: 20210901Wh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-UpgradeWhen.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-UpgradeWhen.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
September is here, which means that Apple will soon start releasing
major upgrades for all its operating systems. Apple previewed these
releases at its Worldwide Developers Conference in June, and many people
have been testing the public betas since. Once Apple judges macOS 12
Monterey, iOS 15, iPadOS 15, watchOS 8, and tvOS 15 to be ready for
prime time, the question arises---when should you install them?

(Note that we say *when* and not *if.* There's no harm in delaying a
major operating system upgrade until Apple has sanded off rough edges
that slipped through testing. But waiting too long puts you at risk from
security vulnerabilities, increases compatibility annoyances, and
prevents you from taking advantage of new features. Plus, when you buy a
new Mac, iPhone, or iPad after these operating systems have shipped,
you'll get the latest version, which could pose problems for your
existing apps. It's best to be prepared if you have to replace a device
unexpectedly.)

In the past, we've offered separate takes on when you should install
each of Apple's operating systems, but many of this year's new features
are spread across multiple operating systems. For instance, the marquee
feature of this season's releases is SharePlay, which promises to let
users watch videos, listen to audio, share screens, and more, all while
on a FaceTime call that could involve an iPhone, iPad, Mac, or Apple TV.
SharePlay sounds technically impressive---we'll let you decide if it
interests you---but it's not a reason to upgrade right away. Apple has
already announced that SharePlay is delayed and won't ship until later
in the year.

So here's the general upgrade order that we suggest, starting with the
iPad. Remember, always make a backup before upgrading a Mac, iPhone, or
iPad so you can revert right away if necessary.​

### iPadOS 15

Upgrade your iPad to [iPadOS
15](https://www.apple.com/ipados/ipados-preview/) first. For the most
part, iPadOS is a superset of iOS, so why should you upgrade your iPad
before your iPhone? The big reason is that Apple has again taken a swing
at improving iPad multitasking, and the changes are worth investigating.
People who rely heavily on iPads will likely appreciate the new
multitasking features, and those for whom the iPad is less important
have nothing to lose by upgrading shortly after release.

Particularly welcome is a Multitasking menu at the top center of every
window that lets you create a full screen, Split View, Slide Over, and
in some cases (like Mail), a center window. There's also a shelf at the
bottom of the screen that shows open windows within an app. You can
create Split View spaces by dragging one app from the App Switcher onto
another. Finally, a list of keyboard shortcuts appears when you press
and hold the Command key on an external keyboard. At long last,
discoverability comes to multitasking!

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210901Wh/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Apple migrated some iOS 14 improvements to iPadOS 15. Widgets can now
appear anywhere on the Home screen, and a new larger widget size lets
apps display more information. Also coming to iPadOS 15 is the App
Library, which automatically organizes all your apps into categories and
enables you to avoid cluttered Home screens.

If you're a Notes user, you'll appreciate the new Quick Note feature,
which lets you create a note with a swipe up from the corner of the
screen using your finger or an Apple Pencil. Quick Note can
automatically pull in highlighted text or links to a website or app, and
it's easy to add more with the Apple Pencil or keyboard.

Other welcome changes include a Focus mode that reduces distractions;
voice searching and tab groups in Safari; FaceTime improvements; Live
Text that allows you to search for, select, copy, and translate text in
photos (on iPads with an A12 Bionic chip or later); and increased city
detail in Maps. ​

### iOS 15

It's usually safe to upgrade iOS fairly quickly because Apple puts
significant effort into ensuring that the new iOS version is a good
experience for those who buy the new iPhones that come with it. However,
because iPhones are so crucial to our everyday lives, it's probably
worth delaying the upgrade to [iOS
15](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-15-preview/) for a few weeks, just in
case. After that, you can install it and enjoy the new features.

Although SharePlay won't arrive on day one, FaceTime still gets welcome
improvements inspired by competing videoconferencing systems. There's
finally a grid view, Portrait mode for blurring the background,
different mic modes for focusing on your voice or on sound in the room,
the capability to include Windows and Android users, and FaceTime Web
links for scheduling and sharing calls.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210901Wh/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Messages will collect links, images, and other content that your friends
have sent you in a new Shared with You section, which you'll also find
in other Apple apps like Photos, Safari, Apple News, Music, and
Podcasts. Plus, when someone sends you multiple photos in Messages, they
appear as either a collage or a stack that you can swipe through. There
are also new Memoji options to try if you're into that.

Other new features are similar to those in iPadOS 15, including Focus
mode, voice searches and tab groups in Safari, Live Text in Camera and
Photos, and improved city detail in Maps, which also gains immersive
walking instructions. ​

### watchOS 8

Once you upgrade your iPhone to iOS 15, go ahead and upgrade your Apple
Watch to [watchOS 8](https://www.apple.com/watchos/watchos-preview/)
right away. You may not even notice the difference since none of the
changes will force changes in your existing usage patterns.

New features include Portrait mode photos on your watch face, Memories
from Photos pushed to your watch, the capability to share photos via
Messages and Mail, integration with HomeKit security cameras, more
control over scenes and devices in the Home app, digital keys for
HomeKit locks, a new Mindfulness app that replaces the Breathe app, a
Pilates option in the Workout app, tracking of your sleeping respiratory
rate, and a Find Devices app for locating lost devices from your wrist.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210901Wh/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### tvOS 15

Why put tvOS ahead of macOS? The decision to upgrade to [tvOS
15](https://www.idownloadblog.com/2021/06/10/tvos-15-apple-tv-features/)
is easy for most people. It's unlikely to cause problems for your Apple
TV, and the new features won't get in the way of basic TV watching.
Plus, if you have automatic updates turned on in Settings > Software
Updates, it will install automatically at some point after release.

You might not want to wait for the automatic update, though. There are
plenty of small but welcome improvements, such as the capability to sign
in to Apple TV apps using Face ID or Touch ID on your iPhone. The
playback interface has a redesigned scrubber that displays more
information. The Apple TV will automatically detect nearby AirPods and
show a notification to connect them, saving you a manual step. If you
have AirPods Pro or AirPods Max, you can listen to Apple TV audio with
dynamic head tracking. The TV app will include a "For All of You" row
based on the interests of everyone in the house (via Family Sharing).
Finally, you can ask a HomePod to play a particular show on the Apple TV
and even use one or two HomePod mini speakers as the default audio
output.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210901Wh/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### macOS 12 Monterey

The hardest upgrade decision revolves around your Mac, as always. For
the most part, macOS 11 Big Sur has been relatively solid, with fewer
complaints than plagued macOS 10.15 Catalina. Some beta testers believe
that macOS 12 Monterey is more of a refinement upgrade without the major
architectural changes that marked Big Sur and Catalina. That would
suggest more stability and the possibility of an easier and earlier
upgrade.

Plus, Monterey has some unique features. Most notable is Universal
Control, which lets you work seamlessly between multiple Macs and your
iPad, connected wirelessly or via USB. You can move the pointer from a
Mac to the iPad, type into iPad apps with your Mac's keyboard, and even
drag and drop content from one Mac to another. Another welcome addition
is the option to use AirPlay to display video, play audio, or present
content from another Apple device to a Mac, something that has
previously been possible only in the other direction. Finally, Monterey
brings the Shortcuts automation app to the Mac, making it easier to
automate repetitive tasks without learning AppleScript or using the
aging Automator.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210901Wh/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Apart from those features, you've already read about most of the
changes. They include FaceTime improvements, support for Focus mode,
Shared with You collections in Apple apps, tab groups (but not voice
searching, sadly) in Safari, a Quick Note hot corner activation option,
Live Text, and Maps enhancements.

You may find some of these features compelling, but we recommend waiting
to upgrade to Monterey for at least a few months. App compatibility
isn't usually a big problem with the other operating systems, but most
of us rely on specific Mac apps---sometimes older versions---to get our
work done. Even once you're confident your apps will work properly in
Monterey, there may be workflow or intra-office compatibility concerns
if some people upgrade and others don't. And, of course, unanticipated
bugs could crop up at professionally inconvenient times---important work
takes place on Macs! So please, do not upgrade to Monterey without
checking with us first. With luck, the start of the new year will have
brought both the bug fixes and app updates necessary to give the green
light.