---
layout: post
date: '2021-03-09'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/web-ads-making-the-best-of-a-lose-lose-scenario/
published: true
title: Web Ads Making the Best of a Lose Lose Scenario
description: Web Ads Making the Best of a Lose Lose Scenario
blogimgpath: 20210302We
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-Analytics.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-Analytics.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
Typically, we like to help you solve problems in these articles. But
there's one problem we all face that has no good solution: ads on Web
pages. Let us explain the background, after which you can decide how you
want to proceed.

Put simply, advertising is the economic engine of the Web. Google and
Facebook make billions and billions of dollars every quarter, almost
entirely on advertising. Publications ranging from the New York Times to
your local newspaper rely on online ads for significant portions of
their revenue. (Historically, newspapers made a lot of money on
classified ads, a business taken over by Craigslist.) On the other side
of the equation, large and small businesses alike depend on ads to get
the word out about their products and services.

The downside? We have to put up with ads slowing down page loads,
distracting us from what we're reading, getting in the way of videos,
and more. The ads have gotten so bad on food blogs that someone built
the [JustTheRecipe](https://www.justtherecipe.app/) site to strip out
the cruft and display only recipe ingredients and instructions. Worse,
the ad companies try to track your every move so ads can follow you from
site to site and attempt to sell you products based on where you've
been.

Plus, most publishers and advertisers aren't all that happy with ads. A
typical click-through rate is about 0.1%, which means only about 1 in
1000 people who see an ad will click it, and the percentage who buy
after that is far lower yet. Publishers need to attract as many eyeballs
as possible to deliver those clicks, so they're more likely to write
controversial headlines and try to trick you into reading as many pages
as possible. Plus, advertisers are constantly trying to make their ads
stand out with in-your-face designs and annoying animations. (Please, no
more "one weird trick" clickbait ads!) What's an ordinary person to do?

Tech companies who aren't beholden to advertising have responded to the
infestation of Web ads by introducing blocking technologies. Apple has
built [privacy features](https://www.apple.com/privacy/features/) into
Safari to prevent advertising companies from tracking you. Brave
Software has created [Brave](https://brave.com/), a new Web browser that
automatically blocks ads and trackers. And numerous ad-blocking
extensions work with these and other Web browsers, including Firefox and
Google Chrome. The best-known of these browser extensions are
[AdBlock](https://getadblock.com/), [Adblock
Plus](https://adblockplus.org/), [Ghostery](https://www.ghostery.com/),
and the open-source [uBlock Origin](https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock)
(the last two work only with Chrome and Firefox).

So should you use one of these approaches to blocking ads? On the plus
side, you will see far fewer ads, Web pages will load faster, and you
won't be creeped out by ads that follow you around the Web like digital
zombies.

However, if you block ads, you aren't supporting the publications whose
work you're consuming, and some publications won't let you read anything
until you disable your ad blocker. Even worse, a non-trivial number of
websites won't work correctly when you have an ad blocker installed.
That's because sites often embed content onto their pages using the same
techniques as ads. We recently saw an exercise equipment site whose
pages of instructional videos were mostly empty and largely
incomprehensible due to our ad blocker preventing the embedded videos
from appearing. Disabling the ad blocker on that site allowed them to
load, but it took us a few minutes to realize what was going on. In more
subtle situations, you may never realize.

You can see why we say this is a lose-lose scenario. Either you allow
ads to load and put up with cluttered Web pages and privacy-abusing ad
trackers, or you block the ads, which hurts publications and can break
Web pages.

At the moment, we come down on the side of blocking ads, supporting the
publications you love through subscriptions, and realizing that you may
need to disable your ad blocker if a Web page doesn't seem to be working
correctly or displaying the desired content. One easy way of testing
sites with problems is simply to load them in a different Web browser
that doesn't have an ad blocker installed.

If you need help choosing or configuring an ad blocker, get in touch!