---
layout: post
date: '2021-09-09'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/solve-networking-puzzles-with-powerline-networking-and-moca/
published: true
title: Solve Networking Puzzles with Powerline Networking and MoCA
description: Solve Networking Puzzles with Powerline Networking and MoCA
blogimgpath: 20210901So
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-NetworkCoax.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-NetworkCoax.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
For most homes and offices, a standard or mesh Wi-Fi network works fine
for providing Internet access throughout the building. And when higher
throughput is necessary, it's usually not that difficult to pull
Ethernet cable from room to room.

But some buildings seem almost impervious to networking---imagine thick
brick walls that both block Wi-Fi signals and make it nearly impossible
to pull wire from one room to another. It may not be the entire
building---you may just have trouble extending a network into a remote
attic or basement room, or to a freestanding outdoor structure.

Where there's a will (and enough money), there's a way, of course, but
there are two affordable alternatives for bringing network access to
tricky spots: powerline networking and MoCA.​

### Powerline Networking

As you might expect from the name, powerline networking uses technical
magic to piggyback data on top of the standard electric cables that are
undoubtedly already in every room of your home or office. It has been
around for years but was long considered slow and unreliable. Modern
iterations of the technology, called
[HomePlug](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HomePlug), have solved many of
those problems and offer up to 2 gigabits per second (Gbps) of
throughput.

You need a pair of powerline adapters to create a network, and all you
have to do is plug them in. However, there are a few things to keep in
mind:

-   Powerline adapters must plug directly into a wall socket. You can't
    connect them to a power strip or an uninterruptible power supply
    because the surge protection blocks the frequencies they use for
    transmitting data.

-   It's often said that powerline adapters must be on the same circuit,
    but it's impossible to predict exactly what that means with the
    wiring in your particular building. The only way to know for sure is
    to test to make sure the adapters pair up and provide acceptable
    throughput. (Depending on the wiring, they may work, but at slower
    speeds.)

-   If you're in an apartment or a building with electrical wiring that
    might extend outside of your space, you can enable security to
    ensure that other powerline adapters can't join your network.

The simplest powerline adapters provide just an Ethernet port, but
others may offer an additional Ethernet jack, a pass-through electric
outlet, and even a built-in Wi-Fi extender. Regardless, they're
inexpensive, with prices for a two-pack well under $100.​

### MoCA

Its name may sound like a tasty hot drink, but MoCA stands for
[Multimedia over Coax Alliance](http://www.mocalliance.org/), and it's a
standard for using coaxial cables for networking. This isn't a new idea:
those who were around the tech world in the 1980s and 1990s may remember
10BASE2 Ethernet, also known as thin Ethernet, which used thin coaxial
cable. However, 10BASE2 Ethernet ran at only 10 megabits per second
(Mbps), whereas MoCA offers throughput of up to 2.5 Gbps. MoCA's win is
that it runs over the coaxial cables installed in many buildings,
primarily homes, to distribute cable TV. If you already have coaxial
cable in your walls, why not use it for networking?

Security remains an issue if your coax cables also carry cable TV or
broadband Internet and thus extend beyond your control. The problem is
that MoCA signals are quite powerful and can travel farther than
intended, such as to neighboring houses. The simple solution is a
[point-of-entry
filter](https://us.hitrontech.com/learn/do-i-need-a-moca-filter-where-do-i-place-it/)
added where the coax enters your house---it prevents MoCA signals from
leaving your house. You may also be able to configure a MoCA security
key to keep your traffic private, but not all MoCA devices support
security.

As with powerline networking, setting up a MoCA network generally
requires at least two adapters, although some routers have built-in MoCA
capabilities. MoCA adapters usually provide one or two Ethernet ports,
although it's also possible to get Wi-Fi network extenders that support
MoCA. The hardware is a bit more expensive than powerline gear, with
prices for a two-pack in the $120 to $150 range.​

### Choosing Wires

Both powerline networking and MoCA require that you have properly
configured wires in your walls, so there are no guarantees with either.
Your building's electrical system may be too complex for powerline
networking, and even if you have coax cables, there's no way of knowing
if they were installed well or have suffered damage over the years.

But neither is particularly expensive, so as long as you purchase from a
vendor that allows returns, you should be able to test either one
easily. And if you're looking for a recommendation about particular
brands to get or avoid, contact us.