---
layout: post
date: '2021-01-15'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/8-ways-apple-improved-the-camera-app-in-ios-14/
published: true
title: 8 Ways Apple Improved the Camera App in iOS 14
description: 8 Ways Apple Improved the Camera App in iOS 14
blogimgpath: 202101048 
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-iPhoneCamera.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2020/Header-iPhoneCamera.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
It's difficult for most of us to imagine that a camera---something that
still feels like it's a standalone object---could be improved
significantly with a software update. But now that cameras are part of
our phones, code is king. With iOS 14, the camera in your iPhone becomes
all the more capable. You'd be excused for not discovering the new
features, though, so here's a rundown.​

### Apple ProRAW

For professional and committed amateur photographers using an iPhone 12
Pro or Pro Max, perhaps the most important new feature of iOS 14 is the
Apple ProRAW image format. Standard RAW images provide raw information
from the camera sensor, which can be tweaked in editing to achieve
results that the camera's standard processing can't. Alas, RAW images
can't take advantage of the iPhone's computational photography
capabilities, such as stitching together many images to produce a single
image with good exposure even in low light conditions.

The Apple ProRAW format gives you the best of both worlds: the iPhone's
computational photography plus the added flexibility of working with raw
data to adjust exposure, color, and white balance. It's far too complex
to get into here, so if you're interested, check out these articles by
photographers [Ben
Sandofsky](https://blog.halide.cam/understanding-proraw-4eed556d4c54),
[Austin Mann](http://austinmann.com/trek/iphone-proraw),
[Nick Heer](https://pxlnv.com/blog/proraw/), and [Om
Malik](https://om.co/2020/12/22/proraw-black-and-white/),
all of which feature copious visual examples.​

### Faster Performance

We've all missed shots because we couldn't get the Camera app open in
time. That may still happen, but Apple is doing its best to help. The
company says that the Camera app now opens faster and the time to the
first shot is 25% faster. When taking a series of Portrait shots, the
time between shots is 15% faster. Overall, Apple says, the Camera app is
90% faster, taking up to 4 frames per second.​

### Prioritize Faster Shooting

Want still more shooting speed? If you take a lot of action shots, iOS
14 offers a new Prioritize Faster Shooting option that reduces the
amount of processing (probably reducing image quality slightly) when you
press the shutter button rapidly. Turn that on in Settings > Camera.​

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/202101048/iOS-14-Faster-Shooting.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="400" />

### Use Volume Buttons for Burst Photos or QuickTake

Burst mode is the best way to make sure you get the photo when shooting
fast-moving subjects. Historically, you invoked burst mode by pressing
and holding the shutter button. Unfortunately, in iOS 13 on the iPhone
11 models, Apple assigned that action to the QuickTake feature, which
automatically starts taking a 1080p video regardless of the current
mode. Burst mode required pressing the shutter button and dragging to
the left, which is tricky to perform correctly under pressure.

Happily, iOS 14 gives us additional options. When in the Camera app,
press and hold the physical Volume Up button to invoke burst mode---let
up to stop taking photos. Pressing and holding the Volume Down button
invokes QuickTake and records video as long as you press the button.​

### QuickTake Comes to iPhone XR, XS, and XS Max

QuickTake was initially available only on the iPhone 11, 11 Pro, and 11
Pro Max from 2019. When Apple released the second-generation iPhone SE
in 2020, it too featured QuickTake. With iOS 14, the QuickTake feature
also comes to 2018's iPhone XR, XS, and XS Max. So if you have one of
those models, try pressing and holding the shutter button to take a
video, or use the Volume Down button.​

### Change Video Mode in the Camera App

Most people will probably want to set the resolution and
frames-per-second for videos once and then forget it. That's what you do
in Settings > Camera > Record Video and Record Slo-mo. But if you do
want to change the settings, getting back to that screen quickly is
difficult. In iOS 14, Apple added a pair of tiny indicators to the
upper-right corner of the Camera app when you're in Video or Slo-mo.
They tell you what resolution and frames-per-second you're using, and
tapping either one cycles you through the other options.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/202101048/iOS-14-video-settings.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Preserve Exposure Adjustment

Sometimes, when you're taking photos in challenging lighting conditions,
you want to override the automatic exposure settings and keep those
settings across multiple shots. In Settings > Camera > Preserve
Settings, you can now enable Exposure Adjustment ➊, which maintains your
settings across shots and shows the exposure adjustment indicator ➋ near
the upper left at all times. Tap that indicator to display the exposure
adjustment slider ➌ below.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/202101048/iOS-14-Exposure-Adjustment.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Mirror Front Camera

By default, when you're taking a selfie with the iPhone's front-facing
camera, the preview shows you what you'd see in a mirror, but the
eventual photo instead displays what someone looking at you would see.
This is most noticeable when there's text in the shot. Some people want
the photo to look exactly like the mirrored version without having to
edit the photo and flip it. iOS 14 now makes that possible with a Mirror
Front Camera switch in Settings > Camera. It affects only the photo you
take, not the preview, so you won't see any change while composing the
shot. In the examples below, the left-hand image shows the Camera app's
default behavior, and the right-hand image shows what you get if you
enable Mirror Front Camera.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2020/202101048/iOS-14-Mirror-Front-Camera.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

If any of these new features sound compelling, take a few minutes to see
if you can work them into your regular shooting.
