---
layout: post
date: '2021-06-20'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/what-is-this-app-tracking-transparency-apple-added-to-ios/
published: true
title: "What Is This App Tracking Transparency Apple Added to iOS 14.5"
description: "What Is This App Tracking Transparency Apple Added to iOS 14.5"
blogimgpath: 20210601Wh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-ApplePrivacy.png
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-ApplePrivacy.png
cta: 2
comments: true
---
You've likely seen mention of the dispute between Apple and Facebook. It
revolves around App Tracking Transparency (ATT), a technology Apple
released in iOS 14.5.

The goal of ATT is to give iPhone and iPad users more control over the
extent to which app makers can track their data and activities across
apps and websites owned by other companies. Before App Tracking
Transparency, nothing prevented companies from sucking a vast amount of
data about your everyday activities and connecting it to other data to
build an insanely detailed picture of who you are and what you do. Apple
has written [A Day in the Life of Your
Data](https://www.apple.com/privacy/docs/A_Day_in_the_Life_of_Your_Data.pdf)
white paper and released the
[Tracked](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8w4qPUSG17Y) TV ad to give you
a sense of how apps track you. We like to think of app tracking as a
fleet of tiny drones constantly hovering over your head, recording your
every waking moment for their corporate masters.

Facebook is particularly perturbed by the introduction of App Tracking
Transparency because the company makes billions of dollars every year by
gleaning as much as it can about you and then selling advertising access
to you to companies that want to [target people like
you](https://signal.org/blog/the-instagram-ads-you-will-never-see/). For
instance, Facebook knows if you're a New York City lawyer and divorced
mother of two who loves dogs, donates to the Sierra Club, and has
Crohn's disease. Although App Tracking Transparency won't prevent
Facebook from tracking your behavior across its own apps, at least it
won't be able to track you across other companies' apps and websites.

Once you upgrade to the latest version of iOS and iPadOS, App Tracking
Transparency requires that apps ask for permission to track you.
However, depending on your current privacy settings, you may never see
those requests. In Settings \> Privacy \> Tracking, if Allow Apps to
Request to Track is turned off, you won't receive any permission
requests, and apps won't be able to track you. Turn that setting on, and
you'll start getting alerts that ask for permission.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210601Wh/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Put bluntly, there is absolutely no reason to allow any app to track
you. Apple explicitly says that apps may not withhold features from
those who opt out of tracking. So if you turn on the Allow Apps to
Request to Track setting, tap Ask App Not to Track whenever you're
prompted. If you accidentally tap Allow, you can always go back to
Settings \> Privacy \> Tracking and turn off the switch to rescind
permission.

You might want to enable Allow Apps to Request to Track to see which
apps were likely violating your privacy before and are still willing to
do so even after App Tracking Transparency has exposed their sleazy
business practices. Frankly, we'd encourage you to think about whether
you want to use apps from such companies---perhaps the best reason to
allow the requests is to identify privacy-abusing apps that you'll then
delete.

[Early statistics from analytics company
Flurry](https://www.flurry.com/blog/ios-14-5-opt-in-rate-att-restricted-app-tracking-transparency-worldwide-us-daily-latest-update/)
suggest that 94%--96% of users in the United States have opted out of
app tracking, either by tapping Ask App Not to Track or by disabling the
Allow Apps to Request to Track. We're surprised the number is so low.