---
layout: post
date: '2021-07-27'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/grove-technologies-ranked-among-elite-managed-service-providers/
published: true
title: "Grove Technologies Ranked Among Elite Managed Service Providers"
description: "Grove Technologies Ranked Among Elite Managed Service Providers"
blogimgpath: 20210727Gr
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - "Press Releases"
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-MSP-101-List.png
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-MSP-101-List.png
cta: 1
comments: true
---
JULY 27, 2021: Grove Technologies has been named as one
of the world's premier managed service providers on the prestigious
Channel Futures 2021 NextGen 101 rankings.

The NextGen 101 list, honors industry-leading managed services and
technology providers who are driving a new wave of growth and innovation
for the tech channel via the groundbreaking solutions they deliver for
their customers. The Channel Futures NextGen 101 are those companies
that hold great promise given the leading-edge information technology
and communication solutions they offer. Many of those business models
revolve around generating recurring revenue from cloud, security and
unified communications, among others.

Given that they represent the future of the technology channel and IT
industry, the Channel Futures NextGen 101 are the growth organizations
to watch in the channel today. This year's NextGen 101 winners were
selected from applications received for the 2021 Channel Futures MSP
501.

[Channel
Futures](https://www.channelfutures.com/?utm_source=msp501&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=2021-ng101&utm_content=press-release)
is pleased to name Grove Technologies to the 2021 NextGen 101.

"Being nominated and then winning a spot in the coveted top 10 is amazing. We started in 2014 with a simple premise, provide efficient and meaningful IT solutions to small companies, and build relationships that last. It’s amazing to see we outranked many competitors in our area, we know that’s due to our unmatched customer service.""

Channel Futures always wants to ensure that their partner communities
are being recognized for what they do best and are therefore creating
programs targeted toward their needs. The Nextgen 101 represents that
effort.

"The NextGen 101 represents those organizations and leaders ushering in
a new wave of growth for the technology industry. The customer
experience is at the very heart of their businesses and thinking and
they approach partnering in a unique way," said Robert DeMarzo, vice
president of content for Informa Tech Channels.

"The NextGen 101 is designed specifically to honor partners dedicating
resources to building out their practices --- all while maintaining the
integrity of their core businesses," said Allison Francis, editor and
content producer at Channel Partners and Channel Futures. "Given that
these companies represent the future of the technology channel and IT
industry, the Channel Futures NextGen 101 are the most watched of all
organizations in the channel today."

The data collected by the annual NextGen 101 and MSP 501 drives Channel
Futures' market intelligence insights, creating robust data sets and
data-based trend reports that support our editorial coverage, event
programming, community and networking strategies and educational
offerings.

**Background**

The 2021 MSP 501 and NextGen 101 lists are based on data collected by
Channel Futures. Data was collected online from March 1 through May 24,
2021. The MSP 501 list recognizes top managed service providers based on
metrics including recurring revenue, profit margin and other factors.

**About** Grove Technologies

Grove Technologies was founded in 2014 with the goal of taking Mac-based businesses to the next level. Since then we have partnered with hundreds of clients across the US to do just that. We solve major challenges like Mac deployment and MDM, while taking the time to learn the needs of our individual businesses. In addition to our personalized service, we feel that our core values set us apart from our competition. We fully embrace the concept of radical transparency and treat our employees as first-class citizens which means that everyone feels like a valued member of the company tied to the overall success of what we are trying to accomplish. This "all in this together" mentality extends to our client relationships as well further strengthening the trust that they have in us. If you are looking for a new kind of MSP, one that is more about building relationships than profits, I urge you to check out Grove Technologies and see what we can do for you!

**About Channel Futures** 

**Channel Futures** is a media and events platform serving companies in
the IT channel industry with insights, industry analysis, peer
engagement, business information and in-person events. Our properties
include Channel Futures MSP 501, recognizing the most influential and
fastest-growing providers of managed services in the technology
industry, Channel Futures DEI 101, honoring and celebrating those who
have often been under-represented in tech channels; Channel Partners
Events, delivering unparalleled in-person events, including [Channel
Partners Conference &
Expo](https://www.channelpartnersconference.com/?utm_source=msp501&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=2021-ng101&utm_content=press-release), [The
MSP
Summit](https://www.themspsummit.com/?utm_source=msp501&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=2021-ng101&utm_content=press-release),
and [Channel Evolution
Europe](https://channelevolutioneurope.com/?utm_source=msp501&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=2021-ng101&utm_content=press-release);
and DEI Community Group, our initiatives to educate, support, promote,
and sustain diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in the IT channel
industry. Channel Futures is part of [Informa
Tech](https://www.informatech.com/?utm_source=msp501&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=2021-ng101&utm_content=press-release),
a market-leading B2B information provider with depth and specialization
in the Information and Communications (ICT) Technology sector. Every
year, we welcome 7,400+ subscribers to our research, more than 3.8
million unique visitors a month to our digital communities, 18,200+
students to our training programs and 225,000 delegates to our events.
Channel Futures is where the world meets the channel; We are leading
Channel Partners forward. More information is available
at [channelfutures.com](https://www.channelfutures.com/?utm_source=msp501&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=2021-ng101&utm_content=press-release). 


**Media Contact ** 

Ginette Andre 

Associate Marketer, VIP Relations 

[ginette.andre@informa.com](mailto:ginette.andre@informa.com) 

Allison Francis  

Editor, Channel Futures and MSP 501  

[allison.francis@informa.com](mailto:allison.francis@informa.com) 