---
layout: post
date: '2021-05-22'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/are-you-incurring-technical-debt-avoid-it-by-staying-current/
published: true
title: "Are You Incurring Technical Debt? Avoid It by Staying Current"
description: "Are You Incurring Technical Debt? Avoid It by Staying Current"
blogimgpath: 20210503Ar
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-OLDMac.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-OLDMac.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
Have you heard the term *technical debt*? It's what you incur whenever
you delay upgrading software and hardware for too long. It's like
forgetting to brush your teeth regularly and putting off dental
checkups. There may be no immediate downside, but the ongoing
maintenance and low cost of regular cleanings will likely save you from
painful and expensive fillings and root canals.

It's easy to start down the path toward technical debt. Perhaps you rely
on an out-of-date productivity package, an industry-specific program
that gets infrequent updates, or an accounting package that isn't being
developed for the Mac anymore. There's no reason you have to act as soon
as you realize you've been painted into a technical corner, but the
longer you put off the upgrade, the faster the technical debt meter
increases.

Here's what happens. Because of the old app you need, you can't upgrade
to a new version of macOS. No problem, except that prevents you from
running the app on a new Mac, since new Macs seldom support older
versions of macOS. That's not a problem either, until the old Mac dies
and you need to replace it. Or, perhaps the Mac doesn't fail, but it
becomes clear that it's far slower than any Mac you could purchase
today. Worse, when you are forced to replace that Mac due to poor
performance or hardware failure, you're suddenly faced with an
additional expense for new software on top of the new hardware. Old
software is a ticking time bomb.

There's another aspect to technical debt that you have to keep in mind.
The older your systems are, the more work it will take to keep them
running. That work may come out of time you could spend on other
projects or with your family, or it could end up generating consulting
expenses. Is it sensible to avoid the monthly cost of Adobe Creative
Cloud if it means that you're paying a consultant regularly to solve the
kinds of problems that become ever more common with an older Mac that
can still run the ancient Adobe Creative Suite 6?

In short, the deeper your technical debt, the more you'll eventually pay
in three categories:

-   **Loss of productivity:** Modern Macs are vastly faster than models
    from years ago, and new app features can provide significant
    productivity boosts as well.

-   **Unscheduled upgrades:** Murphy's Law ensures that an old Mac or
    peripheral will fail at the worst possible time, usually when you're
    facing a deadline or when the expense is hard to swallow.

-   **Support costs:** Just as taking care of your teeth reduces the
    likelihood of dental surgery in the future, keeping up with upgrades
    eliminates the need for long hours of heroic data migration or
    recovery later.

We're not saying that you have to buy the latest and greatest
immediately. But you can employ some smart strategies to ensure that you
never fall too deep into technical debt. Before we get into them, be
aware that everything we're going to discuss here will cost money.
Sorry, but technology is essential to modern life and business---it's
not a luxury. However, follow our advice, and you will have more
predictable costs and may even pay less overall.​

### Software

In the past, you paid for a software license once and could choose to
pay a (usually discounted) upgrade fee every year or two. Licenses were
typically expensive---it wasn't uncommon for apps to cost hundreds or
thousands of dollars. Such licenses still exist, but many apps have
moved to a subscription model, where you pay monthly or annually. The
overall cost is usually roughly similar to the licenses plus upgrades of
yesteryear, but many people dislike subscriptions because they feel
locked in.

We empathize---subscriptions add up for us too---but on the plus side,
they offer a predictable cost and guarantee that you'll always have the
latest version, usually along with free technical support.

For software still sold on a license basis, we recommend assuming that
you'll upgrade at least every two or three years. Any longer than that
and you'll have to start making accommodations that will cut into
productivity or increase support costs.

The worst-case scenario to avoid is depending on an app or system that's
so old that you have to buy used hardware to replace anything that
fails. Bite the bullet and pay for a new app, transition consulting, and
hardware, or else you'll find yourself paying non-stop to keep an
ancient system running.​

### Hardware

Smart businesses upgrade their Macs on a schedule rather than dealing
with each computer on an individual basis. Research has shown that the
sweet spot to swap out a Mac is in the 3--5 year timeframe. Hardware
problems start to increase after that point, performance lags compared
to current machines, and resale value drops.

If you don't already have one, make an inventory of all your Macs,
including the date they were purchased, and use it to work up a
replacement schedule. Larger companies tend to do this
programmatically---they pay less attention to what each employee does or
what their needs are---but there's no reason you can't prioritize some
systems over others to optimize performance and smooth out the overall
expense.

It may make sense to shuffle some Macs around instead of treating each
one independently. For instance, if one employee does a lot of video
work, upgrading them every year to the most powerful Mac available might
improve their productivity significantly, and their old Macs can be
handed down to other employees.​

### Maintenance

Regular maintenance also plays a role in avoiding technical debt. It's
essential to keep up with Apple's operating system and security updates,
for instance, because failing to do so could result in a breach that
would be costly to remediate.

Monitoring software can also be useful in providing early warning of
failing drives, reporting on backup status, clarifying which of your
Macs are up-to-date, and much more. Contact us if you're interested in
learning more about a service like this.

Don't dismiss physical maintenance as a way of reducing technical debt.
Keeping Macs free of dust can prevent them from running hot, which
shortens the lifespan of various components. Ensuring that every Mac has
at least a surge protector, if not an uninterruptible power supply, can
also go a long way toward protecting sensitive electronics from damaging
power surges and sags.

In the end, avoiding technical debt just means making a plan for regular
upgrades and maintenance and sticking to it. Do that and you'll both
have predictable expenses and save money in the long run. And hey, make
that dentist appointment too, eh?