---
layout: post
date: '2021-05-16'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/nine-reasons-to-put-your-macs-pointer-in-a-corner/
published: true
title: "Nine Reasons to Put Your Mac's Pointer in a Corner"
description: "Nine Reasons to Put Your Mac's Pointer in a Corner"
blogimgpath: 20210503Ni
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-iMacCorners.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2021/Header-iMacCorners.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
If your Mac is like ours, it's a busy place, with oodles of open windows
and lots of icons lying around. If you want to display the Desktop or
see a single app's windows, you may find yourself clicking around or
using keyboard shortcuts, but did you know that you can access many of
the Mac's special views with just a flick of your wrist---no click
necessary?

A long-standing but little-known feature called Hot Corners makes this
possible. The key to unlocking Hot Corners is in System Preferences, in
either the Desktop & Screen Saver or Mission Control pane. In either
one, click the Hot Corners button to set up your hot corners.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210503Ni/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The Hot Corners dialog displays a pop-up menu for each of the four
corners of your screen. Choose an action in one of those menus, and
that's what happens when you move your pointer to that corner. A hyphen,
the default, means nothing happens.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210503Ni/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Here's the scoop on each action. To exit these special views, switch to
another app, press the Escape key, put the pointer back in the hot
corner again, or just move the mouse.​

### Mission Control

Use a hot corner to enter this bird's-eye view of all your Mac's open
windows. Once you're in Mission Control, you can switch to any window by
clicking it. (Preview a window by hovering over it and pressing the
Space bar.) You can also set up spaces in Mission Control---a *space* is
a view that contains only windows from the apps assigned to that space.
Click the plus sign in the top-left corner and then drag windows up into
the new space. Switch to a space by clicking it in the top bar.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210503Ni/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Application Windows

For an overview of all open windows for a particular app (Safari, in
this case), use a hot corner to invoke Application Windows. This view
displays thumbnails of all open windows in the current app. For some
apps, like Pages, you'll also see thumbnails of recently opened
documents at the bottom of the view. Click any thumbnail to switch to
it.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210503Ni/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Desktop

If you like storing documents for in-progress projects on your Desktop,
you'll love the hot corner that invokes Desktop view. It moves all open
windows aside, letting you focus on the icons on the Desktop. The
windows return when you switch to an app.​

### Notification Center

Since you can so easily open Notification Center by clicking the date
and time (in macOS 11 Big Sur; in earlier versions of macOS, click the
Notification Center icon) in the upper-right corner of your menu bar, it
may not be worth wasting a hot corner on it. In Big Sur, Notification
Center combines the Today and Notifications views from previous versions
of macOS, with iOS-like widgets underneath the most recent
notifications. You can control which apps can display notifications in
System Preferences > Notifications. To add, remove, or rearrange
widgets, click the Edit Widgets button at the bottom of Notification
Center.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210503Ni/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Start Screen Saver

Screen savers are more than just eye-candy you can use to personalize
your Mac---they also serve to conceal the contents of your screen from
people who might walk by when you're not there. The Start Screen Saver
hot corner shows the screen saver immediately, overriding the setting
for how long the Mac must sit idle before the screen saver turns on (in
System Preferences > Desktop & Screen Saver > Screen Saver). It's
helpful if you're working on something sensitive that you don't want
anyone to see, but you need to leave your desk to chat with a co-worker
or use the bathroom. Depending on your setting for "Require password
after sleep or screen saver begins" in System Preferences > Security &
Privacy > General, you may have to enter your password to turn off the
screen saver.​

### Disable Screen Saver

If you usually have your screen saver set to turn on automatically after
just a minute or two, it may come on when you would prefer it didn't.
This could happen, for example, while you are pondering a complex idea
or thinking about what to write. To disable the screen saver
temporarily, use a Disable Screen Saver hot corner.​

### Launchpad

If you like using iOS, giving Launchpad a hot corner might make opening
apps on your Mac easier. Apple designed Launchpad to look and work like
the Home screen on an iPad or iPhone---just click an app to launch it.
To see more apps, scroll horizontally---with a trackpad, swipe with two
fingers; with an Apple Magic Mouse, swipe with one finger on the mouse
surface. Just like in iOS, you can drag the apps around to put them in
the order that works best for you.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210503Ni/image7.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Put Display to Sleep

Those who are concerned about energy usage might like this option. Toss
your pointer in the associated hot corner, and your screen goes to sleep
immediately, consuming less power than a screen saver. It lets you
override the "Turn display off after" slider in System Preferences >
Energy Saver. As with the screen saver, you may have to enter your
password to wake the display when you come back.​

### Lock Screen

The Lock Screen option has roughly the same effect as Start Screen Saver
and Put Display to Sleep in that it instantly displays the Mac's login
screen, preventing anyone from seeing what's on your Desktop and
requiring your password again.​

### Add Modifier Keys

If you find yourself triggering a hot corner accidentally, try adding a
modifier key so its action activates only when the pointer is in the
corner and the key is pressed. To set this up, open the Hot Corners
dialog, open the corner's pop-up menu, and press a key (Shift, Control,
Option, or Command). The key's symbol appears in the menu. Keep the key
down and choose the desired action.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2021/20210503Ni/image8.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The best way to set up your hot corners depends on how you use your Mac,
of course. Our favorites are Start Screen Saver because it's a quick
override of the screen saver settings and Desktop because it removes
screen clutter that gets in the way of using the Desktop.