---
layout: post
date: '2022-03-14'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/please-dispose-of-old-electronics-responsibly-not-in-the-trash-or-standard-recycling-/
published: true
title: Please Dispose of Old Electronics Responsibly - Not in the Trash or Standard Recycling
description: Please Dispose of Old Electronics Responsibly - Not in the Trash or Standard Recycling
blogimgpath: 20220302Pl
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Ecycle.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Ecycle.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
We all have old electronics squirreled away in our drawers and closets.
It's hard to admit that a computer, phone, or peripheral that cost
hundreds or even thousands of dollars years ago has little or no value.
That's doubly true if it doesn't work anymore. Once you've decided to
get rid of that PowerBook 520 from the 1990s or your first digital
camera from 2004, resist the urge to toss it in the trash.

In some places, [it's illegal to throw out
electronics](https://www.ewaste1.com/is-it-illegal-to-throw-away-electronics/)
because they tend to contain heavy metals like mercury, lead, and
lithium, plus other hazardous materials that can pollute the air if
incinerated or contaminate the ecosystem if buried in landfills. Even if
dumping e-waste is not actively illegal in your area, it's a terrible
thing to do. So what can you do instead?

No matter what you choose, make sure to delete all your data to the
extent possible. If the device in question works, it's best to erase or
reformat its storage. Apple makes that relatively easy, especially on
iOS devices; look in Settings > General for a reset option that
contains Erase All Content and Settings. For dead computers whose drives
contain data, you can remove the drive and ensure your data can't be
accessed by whacking it with a hammer or drilling through the case. That
can be a good stress reliever too, but be sure to wear safety goggles.â€‹

### Sell

If the old device is fully functional or sufficiently rare, you may be
able to sell it on [eBay](https://www.ebay.com/) or through
[Craigslist](https://www.craigslist.org/). To determine if that is
likely to be worthwhile, search for similar used devices on those sites.
If others are selling their old stuff, you probably can too. Keep in
mind that you're not likely to make much, and be sure to take shipping
costs and fuss into account.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220302Pl/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Donate

Given the low value of even fully functional hardware, a more socially
beneficial option is often to take advantage of local programs that
accept donations of working computers and other electronics, clean and
refurbish them as necessary, and then donate them to schools, libraries,
community centers, and other worthy institutions. If the program to
which you're donating is a registered nonprofit, you may even be able to
[deduct the value of the gear from your
taxes](https://www.computerswithcauses.org/tax-deduction/).

If your area lacks such programs, check out [Computers with
Causes](https://www.computerswithcauses.org/), which accepts donations
of computers, tablets, and gadgets. It then refurbishes them and moves
them on to groups like youth centers, K--12 schools, libraries,
historical societies, wildlife conservation organizations, and more.
Also look into [World Computer
Exchange](https://worldcomputerexchange.org/), which provides donated
computers and electronics to youth in developing nations.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220302Pl/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Recycle

All too often, the only realistic option for disposing of old
electronics is recycling. That doesn't mean just tossing that old iPhone
3GS in the bin with your #2 plastics. It's extremely important that
e-waste be recycled separately from standard recyclables like cardboard,
paper, cans, and plastic tubs. That's because lithium batteries from
improperly recycled electronics are causing [dangerous fires at
recycling
centers](https://www.vice.com/en/article/xgdvpk/lithium-battery-fires-are-threatening-recycling-as-we-know-it).

Municipal waste programs are often set up to recycle e-waste properly,
and they may be the easiest option in your area. For alternatives, look
to the large chain stores [Best
Buy](https://www.bestbuy.com/site/services/recycling/pcmcat149900050025.c)
and
[Staples](https://www.staples.com/sbd/cre/marketing/sustainability-center/recycling-services/),
both of which accept electronics for recycling, generally for free.
[Apple stores also accept electronics for
recycling](https://www.apple.com/shop/trade-in), or you can request a
prepaid shipping label that lets you ship e-waste to Apple.
Alternatively, try searching the
[Earth911](https://search.earth911.com/) database for other recycling
options near you. The [Consumer Technology
Association](https://www.cta.tech/Landing-Pages/Greener-Gadgets/Recycle-Locator#/)
also provides a locator for electronics recycling; it may have slightly
different listings.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220302Pl/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Regardless of where you take your e-waste, be sure to read the
requirements first. Not all sites take all types of electronics---a cell
phone is much easier to handle than a broken large-screen TV. Also, you
may need to remove any batteries first and recycle them separately so
they can be handled with additional care to prevent fires.

Thanks for doing your part to keep old electronics from causing harm!