---
layout: post
date: '2022-09-13'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/when-should-you-upgrade-to-macos-13-ventura,-ios-16,-ipados-16,-watchos-9,-and-tvos-16-/
published: true
title: When Should You Upgrade to macOS 13 Ventura, iOS 16, iPadOS 16, watchOS 9, and tvOS 16-
description: When Should You Upgrade to macOS 13 Ventura, iOS 16, iPadOS 16, watchOS 9, and tvOS 16-
blogimgpath: 20220905Wh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-VenturaAdvice.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-VenturaAdvice.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
September is here, which means that Apple will soon start releasing
major upgrades for all its operating systems. Note that we say "start."
Apple will release iOS 16 and watchOS 9 alongside new iPhones and Apple
Watch models in September. However, Apple has now acknowledged that
[iPadOS 16 will ship
later](https://techcrunch.com/2022/08/23/apple-delivers-ipados-16-1-beta-ahead-of-ios-16-fall-release/)
in the fall---perhaps in October---as version 16.1, likely in
conjunction with iOS 16.1 and possibly alongside macOS 13 Ventura. tvOS
16 isn't interesting enough to worry about much either way.

Apple previewed these releases at its Worldwide Developers Conference in
June, and many people have been testing the public betas since. Once
Apple judges each of its operating systems to be ready for public
consumption, the question arises---when should you upgrade?

Note that we say *when* and not *if.* There's no harm in delaying a
major operating system upgrade until Apple has sanded off rough edges
that slipped through testing. But waiting too long puts you at risk from
security vulnerabilities, increases compatibility annoyances, and
prevents you from taking advantage of new features. Plus, when you buy a
new Mac, iPhone, or iPad after these operating systems have shipped,
you'll get the latest version, which could pose problems for your
existing apps or compatibility with older hardware or workflows. It's
best to be prepared if you have to replace a device unexpectedly.

Given that we don't know precisely when each operating system will come
out, here's our recommendation for the general upgrade order that we
anticipate and how long we suggest waiting after the release appears.
Remember, *always* make a backup before upgrading a Mac, iPhone, or iPad
so you can revert if necessary.​

### iOS 16

It's usually safe to upgrade iOS fairly quickly because Apple puts
significant effort into ensuring that the new iOS version is a good
experience for those who buy the new iPhones that come with it. However,
because iPhones are so crucial to our everyday lives, it's worth
delaying the upgrade to [iOS
16](https://www.apple.com/ios/ios-16-preview/) for a few weeks, just in
case. After that, you can install it and enjoy the new features.

You'll likely enjoy iOS 16's customizable Lock screen, which lets you
specify the font, color, and placement of various options, all of which
appear with photos that can shuffle throughout the day. Widgets can now
appear on the Lock screen too, providing at-a-glance weather and other
info even without unlocking your iPhone. The new dictation capabilities
that let you talk, select, and type without switching modes may also be
game-changing for some, and dictation will even add punctuation
automatically and let you enter emojis with voice commands.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Wh/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


However, some features may not be fully available at the start due to
Apple's tight integration of operating systems. Messages will finally
let you edit messages after sending, undo sending, and mark messages as
unread---but editing and unsending won't work for messages sent to
people running anything earlier than iOS 16, iPadOS 16, and Ventura.
We're unsure if Apple will enable iCloud Shared Photo Library, which
lets you automatically share an entire library of photos with family
members or friends, until iPadOS 16 and Ventura are out as well.
Similarly, the Continuity Camera feature of iOS 16, which lets you use
your iPhone as a webcam for your Mac's videoconferencing apps, won't be
available until Ventura ships.​

### watchOS 9

Once you upgrade your iPhone to iOS 16, there's no reason to delay
upgrading your Apple Watch to [watchOS
9](https://www.apple.com/watchos/watchos-preview/). You may not even
notice the difference since none of the changes are likely to force
changes in your usage patterns.

New features include new views and more metrics in the Workout app,
including a display of heart rate zones and pace feedback. You can
customize workout and recovery intervals, race against previous routes,
get running form metrics, and see your running power. Also new is a
Medications app that helps you remember to take medications and log them
from reminders. And, of course, there are more watch faces.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Wh/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
​

### tvOS 16

We don't know when Apple will release tvOS 16, but the changes are so
minimal that it doesn't matter much. tvOS 16 will support more Bluetooth
gaming controllers, provide full support of the Matter smart home
standard, and offer more integration with your other Apple devices, such
as with workouts in Apple Fitness+.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Wh/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Unless something in that list encourages you to upgrade as soon as it's
out, we suggest letting your Apple TV (the fourth-generation model and
later) upgrade itself when it gets around to it, assuming you have
automatic updates turned on in Settings \> Software Updates.​

### iPadOS 16

[iPadOS 16](https://www.apple.com/ipados/ipados-preview/) may not be
available until October, but once it ships, our general advice is that
it's fine to update. For the most part, iPadOS is a superset of iOS, so
if anything, Apple should have had some time to fix any early bugs that
cropped up in iOS 16 before releasing iPadOS 16.

The big new feature in iPadOS 16---if you have an M1-equipped iPad like
the latest iPad Air or iPad Pro---is Stage Manager, which brings a
structured windowing system to the iPad and Mac. Stage Manager lets you
stack up to four apps in an overlapping view, providing additional sets
of apps off to the side in a sort of secondary Dock. If you connect your
iPad to an external display (along with a keyboard and pointing device),
it offers another separate workspace, so you can work more fluidly in
multiple apps at once.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Wh/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


If you want to see more on screen, a new display scaling mode shrinks
interface elements and content. It may make Stage Manager and Split View
more helpful. You'll also likely enjoy a better search in Mail, plus
options to undo sending, schedule sending, follow up on sent messages,
and add rich links. (These Mail features are shared with iOS 16 and
Ventura.) Last but not least, the iPad finally gets its own Weather
app.​

### macOS 13 Ventura

The hardest upgrade decision revolves around upgrading your Mac to
[macOS 13 Ventura](https://www.apple.com/macos/macos-ventura-preview/),
and that assumes you can upgrade at all, given that Apple has dropped
support for all Macs released before 2017. The main new feature that you
might find compelling is Stage Manager, although most longtime Mac users
probably already feel comfortable with their window management skills.
If you spend a lot of time in video calls, the new Continuity Camera
feature that lets you use your iPhone (running iOS 16, natch) as a
high-quality webcam with support for Center Stage---which enables the
camera to follow you as you move around---may also be attractive. And,
of course, you'll get the new Messages, Mail, and iCloud Shared Photo
Library features that Apple added to iOS 16 and iPadOS 16.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Wh/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


We always encourage caution when upgrading to a new version of macOS.
Wait at least a few months before upgrading your primary Mac to Ventura.
App compatibility isn't usually a long-term problem with iOS and iPadOS,
but many people rely on older Mac apps that may not work in the latest
version of macOS. Even once you're confident that your apps will work
properly in Ventura, there may be workflow or intra-office compatibility
concerns if some people upgrade and others don't. And, of course,
unanticipated bugs could crop up at inconvenient times---important work
takes place on Macs! Please, do not upgrade to Ventura without checking
with us first. With luck, the start of the new year will have brought
both the bug fixes and app updates necessary to give the green light.