---
layout: post
date: '2022-01-20'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/perturbed-by-the-price-of-adobe-creative-cloud-consider-the-affinity-suite/
published: true
title: "Perturbed by the Price of Adobe Creative Cloud - Consider the Affinity Suite"
description: "Perturbed by the Price of Adobe Creative Cloud - Consider the Affinity Suite"
blogimgpath: 20220103Pe
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Affinity.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Affinity.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Few would disagree that the most popular image editing software in the
world is Adobe Photoshop, the top illustration app is Adobe Illustrator,
and the preeminent page layout package is Adobe InDesign. Many design
and publishing professionals spend their lives in one or more of these
apps.

There's one problem: cost. Adobe provides access to them only via
[Creative Cloud
subscriptions](https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/plans.html), where
each app costs \$21 per month, making it hard to pass up the
\$53-per-month All Apps bundle that includes all three plus Premiere
Pro, Acrobat Pro, and more. That All Apps bundle works out to an
eye-watering \$636 per year.

For many people, that \$636 annual expense is just the cost of doing
business. They need the full power of Adobe's tools, and they need to
collaborate with others using native Photoshop, Illustrator, and
InDesign files. If you fall into that camp, no worries, and you can stop
reading right now.

However, if you're subscribing to Adobe Creative Cloud merely because
you need a capable image editor, illustration app, or page layout
package, and you aren't otherwise deep in the Adobe ecosystem, consider
the [Affinity suite from Serif](https://affinity.serif.com/): Affinity
Photo, Affinity Designer, and Affinity Publisher, each of which costs
\$55. Once. That's right, you can buy all three for \$165, or just about
the same as 3 months of Creative Cloud. Updates are free. Versions for
Microsoft Windows are available for \$55 too, and Affinity Photo and
Affinity Designer also come as \$10 iPad apps.

The obvious question is if you could replace Photoshop, Illustrator, and
InDesign with Affinity Photo, Affinity Designer, and Affinity Publisher.
We can't answer that for sure---the Adobe apps have so many features
that it's impossible to know which are most important to you and if the
Affinity apps' features are comparable. Some may not match up---we've
been told that master pages in Affinity Publisher are a bit funkier than
master pages in InDesign, for instance. Others may even be better---some
people we know find exporting Web graphics from Affinity Designer easier
than exporting from Illustrator. And some may not exist at all---it
doesn't seem that Affinity Publisher (the newest addition to the suite)
has a Track Changes feature like InDesign.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220103Pe/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


For instance, just as you can embed Photoshop and Illustrator files in
an InDesign layout and then use the Edit Original command to edit them
in the other app, you can embed Affinity Photo and Affinity Designer
files in Affinity Publisher. Serif's StudioLink technology provides
direct access to the primary tools from Affinity Photo and Affinity
Designer right within an Affinity Publisher document. It's neat.

Overall, the feature sets are similar. Those who would consider
switching from Creative Cloud can probably figure out how to accomplish
their necessary tasks using the Affinity apps. That's not to say that
they're clones of Adobe's apps. In many cases, you might need to learn a
new technique for accomplishing some task. Along with full
documentation, Serif provides [hundreds of tutorial
videos](https://affinity.serif.com/en-us/learn/) and runs an [active
user forum](https://forum.affinity.serif.com/) where people ask
questions, make suggestions, and share tutorials. Simple Web searches
also often turn up blog posts with useful techniques from Affinity
users.

What about moving files back and forth? Affinity Photo can open
Photoshop's proprietary PSD files, although it's not guaranteed to
import everything perfectly. Affinity Designer can open Illustrator
documents as long as they were saved with the Create Compatible PDF File
option selected. Similarly, it can open Illustrator-created PDF files
that many designers send to clients as proofs. And Affinity Designer can
open InDesign files that have been saved in IDML (InDesign Markup
Language) format. Plus, you can often just copy and paste text and
objects between the apps. If you decide to switch, you might want to
continue your Creative Cloud subscription while ensuring that your key
Adobe files are saved such that the Affinity apps can open them.

On the export side, the Affinity apps can export in many formats, but
they're more for final exports when it's time to print or publish. You
probably wouldn't want to use the Affinity apps to collaborate on files
with those using the Adobe apps. That said, Affinity Photo can export
PSD files for use in Photoshop, and Affinity Designer and Affinity
Publisher are probably best served by exporting PDF files that
Illustrator and InDesign can open. Just don't expect everything to move
between the apps flawlessly.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220103Pe/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


In the end, the decision is yours---we're merely suggesting the Affinity
suite as a cost-saving option if you don't need everything Creative
Cloud provides. Visit the Affinity site, watch Serif's marketing and
tutorial videos, and poke around in the extensive online help. Free
trial versions of all the apps are available, and there's a 14-day
money-back guarantee. In the best of all worlds, you'll save hundreds of
dollars per year and find that you like the Affinity apps more than
Adobe's.