---
layout: post
date: '2022-10-13'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/five-best-practices-for-organizing-and-naming-computer-files/
published: true
title: Five Best Practices for Organizing and Naming Computer Files
description: Five Best Practices for Organizing and Naming Computer Files
blogimgpath: 20221005Fi
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Naming.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Naming.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
We've had decades to get used to organizing computer files, but it's
still hard for many people. Part of the problem is imagining how
you---or your colleagues, if you're in a workgroup---will need to find
the files in the future. Another part of the problem is mustering
enthusiasm for renaming and reorganizing existing files to match an
improved approach. Let's see if we can help!​

### #1: Start Now and Catch Up Later

Don't let your old files prevent you from starting a new organizational
approach. The best time to begin is now; you can reorganize old files
later.

An easy way to avoid being bogged down by old stuff is to move all your
existing files and folders into a folder called "Unorganized" at the top
level of wherever you store documents. Make sure to retain any hierarchy
that those old files might have. If you're still working with those
files, they remain just as accessible as they were before.

One type of cleanup is often worth doing right away: If you have a lot
of temporary or duplicate files from past projects that you can
instantly identify as unnecessary, delete those now while they're still
familiar. That saves you or someone else the work of thinking about them
again in the future.​

### #2: Pick an Organizational Structure

The most important question to ask yourself or your colleagues is what
sort of organizational structure matches how you think about your data.
There are four common approaches:

-   **Project name:** It's hard to go wrong with using a project name as
    your primary organizational structure. For instance, an ad agency
    might have a top-level folder for each client, or a book publisher
    might have one for each title. A nonprofit that organizes five
    annual events could have a folder for each event. Within each
    project folder, additional folders can separate files by category.
    You may also add some date-based structure to keep older files from
    getting in the way of current work. For instance, here's how an ad
    agency might organize email marketing files for a hotel.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Fi/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Date:** Groups with many files that revolve around time periods
    may find it easiest to organize everything by year, month, and day.
    Date-based organization is a special case---you'll know if it makes
    sense for your data and usage patterns. For instance, if a
    distributor creates different inventory reports for every supplier
    every day, a hierarchy like this might make working with files from
    the same time period easy. However, finding all the files for a
    particular supplier would be more difficult, although a file naming
    convention could help resolve that problem.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Fi/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Project type:** Large organizations with a lot of
    cross-departmental collaboration across numerous projects might find
    it easier to separate files by category first and name second. That
    way, everyone in the marketing and production departments working
    with scripts and audio files for radio spots, for instance, can find
    those files without having to see files related to social media ads.
    The downside is that finding related client projects is tricky
    unless you add that information into a file naming structure.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Fi/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Department:** For large organizations with siloed departments that
    seldom interact, each department can have its own hierarchy. That
    keeps the marketing department's files separate from the accounting
    department's, for instance, but can result in confusion when
    departments do collaborate. Plus, it can be difficult to bring data
    about a single project together, although again, a good file naming
    structure can help.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Fi/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


We often get questions about how best to organize images. If they're
tightly related to particular projects, the easiest approach is usually
to store them alongside other files in that project. For example, photos
for a cookbook might live with the layout files within a folder for each
chapter.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Fi/image6.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

For graphically intensive fields with a very large number of images to
track across multiple projects, particularly when any given image might
be used in multiple contexts, consider moving to a digital asset
management app that stores all your images, providing access through
hierarchical categories and keywords or tags. Digital asset management
apps are essentially databases for images and other media, enabling you
to search and sort far more flexibly than with a simple folder
hierarchy.​

### #3: Decide on a Consistent File Naming Convention

Although an organizational structure is important to help you find files
quickly and work with related files, your file naming convention is even
more important. You should be able to identify a file merely by glancing
at its file name, even if it was moved outside its folder hierarchy.
That's especially true if files are shared outside your organization,
where the recipient won't see the folder hierarchy above the file. You
can see this problem illustrated below: you can tell exactly what this
Mailchimp.pdf file is from the folder structure, but would someone else
have any way of knowing it's a Belvedere Hotel-related invoice from
2022?

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Fi/image7.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

File names should be as specific and detailed as necessary for quick
identification, preferably starting with a date or project name and
including essential aspects of the organizational structure. Dates work
well for any file that's created on a regular basis---instead of the
vague MailChimp.pdf, try 2022-09-29-Belvedere-invoice-MailChimp.pdf.
Project names are better for one-offs, so instead of Chapter3.docx, use
something like Second-Breakfasts-Ch03-recipes.docx. Note how both of
those names integrate key aspects of organizational structure.

Three pieces of advice:

-   When you name files starting with the date, use the YYYY-MM or
    YYYY-MM-DD format to ensure that they sort well and can't be
    confused with older or newer files.

-   Consistency is key. Stick to the conventions you decide to use and
    require that everyone else do so as well. Having one file name start
    with "Second-Breakfasts" and another with "2nd breakfasts" will
    cause confusion and annoyance.

-   When separating words, use a space, a hyphen (-), or an underscore
    (\_). Spaces are the easiest to use but should be avoided for files
    destined for a website. We prefer hyphens because macOS interprets
    two words separated by an underscore as a single word when
    selecting, which can be irritating while editing file names.​

### #4: Identify Versions Clearly

Many files go back and forth between multiple people in a collaborative
workflow. Building a versioning scheme into your file naming convention
is essential to ensure that everyone knows which version is the most
recent and who worked on which version. It's tempting to use a single
file, with each person renaming it as necessary, but we recommend
archiving each version until the completion of the project to make it
easy to see who did what and to recover from any file corruption or
accidental deletion of data. When using a file server or shared folder,
it's best to make it clear when someone is actually working on the file
to avoid collisions. Let's assume in these steps that you and your
editor are taking turns working on a Word file.

1.  Alongside the file in question, create a folder called CHECKED OUT
    and another called OLD.

2.  Move the file you're working on into CHECKED OUT. Name the file
    however you like, but end it with your initials and the number 1, as
    in Second-Breakfasts-Ch03-layout-rte1.docx.

3.  After you make your changes, move the file back into the main folder
    and alert your editor that it's available.

4.  When your editor wants to work on the file, they first make a copy
    of it in OLD to archive a version. Then they move the working copy
    into CHECKED OUT and rename it with their initials, incrementing the
    version number, as in Second-Breakfasts-Ch03-layout-afp2.docx.

5.  They edit the file, moving it back to the main folder when done and
    alerting you.

6.  You each then repeat Steps 4 and 5 as necessary, storing an archive
    copy in OLD, putting the working file in CHECKED OUT, renaming it
    with initials and the next version number, and then putting it back
    in the main folder when done.

7.  On the final revision, rename the file one last time, replacing the
    initials and version number with "final," as in
    Second-Breakfasts-Ch03-layout-final.docx.

If you're instead sending files back and forth via email, there's no
need for the CHECKED OUT folder, but you should both keep a copy of each
version in OLD, just in case.​

### #5: Know When to Browse and When to Search

If you have a solid organizational structure, you should be able to jump
right to the files you need by navigating the folder hierarchy, and if
you've designed your structure well, you'll browse for files most of the
time. However, if a consistent file naming convention enables you to
fall back on searching in certain situations:

-   You need to find files across multiple folders. For instance, if you
    store files by client but want to see all the invoices for all
    clients, a search on "invoice" is more effective than looking in
    each client folder separately.

-   There are too many files to work with fluidly. Imagine that you have
    an automated system that generates dated reports for multiple
    suppliers in a particular folder. If they're sorted first by date
    and then by supplier, a search could help you filter the folder's
    contents to a single supplier.

-   You don't entirely understand the organizational structure or trust
    that others have followed it. This scenario is most likely when you
    weren't the person to set things up. Hopefully, you at least have
    consistent file names to look for with your searches.

Apart from these situations, if you find yourself regularly resorting to
a search, that may be a hint that you should revisit the organizational
structure and make sure it works the way you need.

As you can see, there are numerous approaches for organizing and naming
your files, and what makes sense for one group may not for another. If
you're having trouble deciding on the best approach, feel free to ask us
for suggestions.