---
layout: post
date: '2022-12-29'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/apple-patches-active-exploit-vulnerability-for-iphones/
published: true
title: Apple patches active exploit vulnerability for iPhones
description: Apple patches active exploit vulnerability for iPhones
blogimgpath: 20221226Ap
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-PatchiPhone.png
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-PatchiPhone.png
cta: 3
comments: true
---
Apple has released [new security
content](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT213516) for iOS 16.1.2
and [Safari 16.2](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213537). Normally we
would say that Apple pushed out updates, but in this mysterious case the
advisory is about an iPhone software update Apple released two weeks
ago. As it turns out, to fix a zero-day security vulnerability that was
actively exploited.

**Mitigation**

The updates should all have reached you in your regular update routines,
but it doesn\'t hurt to check if your device is at the [latest update
level](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201222).

[How to update your iPhone or
iPad.](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204204)

[How to update macOS on Mac.](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201541)

If you fear your Mac has been infected, try out [Malwarebytes for
Mac](https://malwarebytes.com/mac). Or [Malwarebytes for
iOS](https://support.malwarebytes.com/hc/en-us/categories/360002468273-Malwarebytes-for-iOS) for
your Apple devices.

Since the vulnerability we'll discuss below is already being exploited,
it\'s important that you update your devices as soon as you can.

**CVE-2022-42856**

Apple revealed that it is aware that threat actors are actively
exploiting the vulnerability listed
as [CVE-2022-42856](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-42856).
The bug was found in WebKit which is Apple's web rendering engine. In
other words, WebKit is the browser engine that powers Safari and other
apps. So, it's no surprise that you will find the same CVE number in the
Safari security advisory, along with a list of others.

Apple says the impact of the vulnerability is that processing
maliciously crafted web content may lead to arbitrary code execution.
The underlying issue was what is called a \"type confusion\" issue,
which was addressed with improved state handling.

Type confusion vulnerabilities are programming flaws that happen when a
piece of code doesn't verify the type of object that is passed to it
before using it. Type confusion can allow an attacker to feed function
pointers or data into the wrong piece of code. In some cases, this can
lead to code execution.

Another clue was given when Apple revealed that security researchers at
Google's Threat Analysis Group, which investigates nation state-backed
spyware, hacking, and cyberattacks, discovered and reported the WebKit
bug. That might give you an idea about who was using the exploit in the
wild.

**Version confusion**

What remains a mystery is why Apple specifically stated that this issue
may have been actively exploited against versions of iOS released before
iOS 15.1.

We asked our resident Apple expert Thomas Reed why, then, did iOS 16
users get an update and iOS 15 users didn't?

He pointed out the fact that Apple recently documented that security
fixes may only apply to the latest system, and may not be back-ported to
older systems. This has always been the case, but it wasn\'t documented,
leaving users guessing about what was going on.

"Still, Apple has been known to back-port fixes when they\'re aware of
active attacks on an older system, so I doubt it\'s just a matter of
falling back on a disclaimer. That suggests to me that there\'s some
difficulty involved. I don\'t know exactly what changed in WebKit
between iOS 15 and 16, but there were definitely a lot of Safari-related
changes in iOS 16, so it\'s entirely possible there\'s some kind of
architectural change standing in the way of back-porting."

Source: [Malwarebytes
Blog](https://www.malwarebytes.com/blog/news/2022/12/update-now-apple-patches-active-exploit-vulnerability-for-iphones?utm_source=blueshift&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=b2c_pro_oth_20221226_decweeklynewsletter_v4_1_167167138462&utm_content=apple_patches)
