---
layout: post
date: '2022-02-17'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/you-can-now-upgrade-to-macos-12-monterey-when-you-re-ready/
published: true
title: "You Can Now Upgrade to macOS 12 Monterey When You're Ready"
description: "You Can Now Upgrade to macOS 12 Monterey When You're Ready"
blogimgpath: 20220201Yo
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-MontereyOk.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-MontereyOk.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
When it comes to upgrading to a new version of macOS, we err on the side
of caution, at least in our recommendations. (We often install even beta
releases on secondary machines for testing purposes.) Upgrading is easy,
but if you upgrade too soon, the new version of macOS could render
favorite apps inoperable, create workflow interruptions, and have other
negative consequences. On the other hand, waiting too long can cause
problems---it's important so you can stay in sight of the cutting edge
for security reasons and take advantage of Apple's advances. Upgrading
is not an *if* question; it's a *when* question.

That "when" could be now. There's no reason you must upgrade to [macOS
12 Monterey](https://www.apple.com/macos/monterey/) right away, but if
you want to, you should now be able to do so without undue
interruptions. Monterey has been quite stable and has needed only two
updates since its initial release in October 2021. The [macOS
12.1](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212585#macos121) feature release
in December 2021 added support for SharePlay, the Apple Music Voice
Plan, Memories improvements in Photos, and Legacy Contacts, along with
bug fixes and security updates. The [macOS
12.2](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212585#macos122) maintenance
release from January 2022 includes only unspecified bug fixes and some
security updates. The upcoming macOS 12.3 will add the long-promised
Universal Control feature for controlling multiple Macs and iPads from
one keyboard and mouse. After that, Monterey should be feature-complete
and will likely receive only bug fixes and security updates.

You can continue to delay as long as you're running macOS 10.15 Catalina
or macOS 11 Big Sur and are staying up to date with Apple's security
updates. Earlier versions of macOS no longer receive security fixes,
rendering them more vulnerable to attack. Reasons to delay further
include:

-   **You're too busy.** The upgrade process will take a few hours, and
    it may take additional time to configure everything properly
    afterward. When you are ready to upgrade, aim for when a little
    downtime will be convenient.

-   **You're using incompatible software.** The jump from Catalina or
    Big Sur to Monterey isn't a big one, so most modern apps should have
    been updated to ensure compatibility with Monterey by now. But if
    you're still running macOS 10.14 Mojave or earlier with 32-bit apps,
    you'll lose access to them if you upgrade. (That happened first with
    Catalina.) With Mojave no longer receiving security updates, you
    need to find replacements for those apps and upgrade soon.

-   **You need consistent versions for workflow reasons.** We're unaware
    of any major issues here, but it's not inconceivable that a coworker
    could be stuck on an older version of macOS and thus older versions
    of shared productivity apps. If your upgrade would force you to
    update those apps and introduce compatibility issues when
    collaborating with that coworker, you may have to wait until your
    coworker can upgrade as well.

Monterey won't upend your experience of using a Mac, but it has numerous
welcome features, both large and small. Apple radically improved
FaceTime, introduced the Shortcuts app from iOS, added privacy
enhancements like iCloud Private Relay and Hide My Email, enables you to
copy text from images with Live Text, provides screen sharing in
FaceTime calls, lets you always display the menu bar in full-screen
mode, and much more. Perhaps even more important, Monterey shares
numerous features with Apple's other operating systems: iOS 15, iPadOS
15, watchOS 8, and tvOS 15. To take full advantage of those features
across all your Apple devices, your Mac must be running Monterey.â€‹

### Before You Upgrade

Once you've decided to upgrade to Monterey, you have three main tasks:

-   **Update apps:** Make sure all your apps are as up-to-date as
    possible. If you regularly put off updates, now's the time to let
    them complete so you have Monterey-compatible versions.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Yo/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Clear space:** Monterey needs about 36 GB of free space to
    upgrade, and the Monterey installer itself is about 12 GB, so we
    recommend making sure you have at least 50 GB free. Don't cut this
    close---you should always have at least 10--20% free space for
    virtual memory, cache files, and breathing room.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Yo/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Make a backup:** Never, ever install a major upgrade to macOS
    without ensuring that you have at least one current backup first. In
    an ideal world, you'd have an updated Time Machine backup, a
    bootable duplicate, and an Internet backup. That way, if something
    goes wrong, you can easily restore.
   <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Yo/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Upgrading

After the above-listed tasks are complete, make sure you don't need your
Mac for a few hours. There's no telling exactly how long the upgrade
will take, so never start an upgrade if you need the Mac soon.

Initiating the upgrade is just a matter of opening System Preferences >
Software Update, clicking the Upgrade Now button, and following the
instructions. If you'd like more hand-holding, check out Joe Kissell's
ebook [*Take Control of
Monterey*](https://www.takecontrolbooks.com/monterey/?pt=TCN).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Yo/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### After You Upgrade

Part of the reason to set aside plenty of time for your Monterey upgrade
is that there are usually cleanup tasks afterward. We can't predict
precisely what you'll run into, depending on what version of macOS
you're running now and what apps you use, but here are a few situations
we've noticed in the past:

-   macOS may need to update its authentication situation by asking for
    your Apple ID password, your Mac's password, and if you have another
    Mac, its password too. Don't worry that this is a security
    breach---it's fine.

-   Some apps may have to ask for permission to access your contacts and
    calendar even though you previously granted permission. Again,
    that's fine and won't happen again.

-   If you use your Apple Watch to unlock your Mac and apps (and you
    should, it's great!), you may need to re-enable that in System
    Preferences > Security & Privacy > General.

-   If you use Gmail, Google Calendar, or other Google services, you may
    need to log in to your Google account again.

-   Websites that usually remember your login state may require that you
    log in again. If you're using a password manager like
    [1Password](https://1password.com/), that's easy.
    
-   You may have to re-enable text message forwarding to your Mac on
    your iPhone in Settings > Messages > Text Message Forwarding.

With all that housekeeping done, it's time to check out all the [new
features in Monterey](https://www.apple.com/macos/monterey/features/)!