---
layout: post
date: '2022-12-03'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/two-ways-to-manage-your-email-so-you-can-find-it-later/
published: true
title: Two Ways to Manage Your Email So You Can Find It Later
description: Two Ways to Manage Your Email So You Can Find It Later
blogimgpath: 20221203Tw
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-EmailSearching.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-EmailSearching.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
We recently wrote about different ways to organize your files, which
prompted some people to ask us about the best ways to manage email.
Email may have competition from messaging services like Slack and
Microsoft Teams, but for many people, it's still where the most
important communications take place. That's especially true for anyone
who has to work with numerous people outside their
organization---there's a reason why business cards nearly always contain
an email address.

As with file organization, how you manage and organize your email is all
about making it easier to find a specific message or conversation later.
The big difference between files and email is that you usually care
about how other people will be able to find and work with your files.
With email, however, you're the only person who has to sort through your
messages. Imagine you run an ad agency that has the Belvedere Hotel as a
client---your organizational structure for files needs to work for all
your colleagues, but no one but you needs to find your email message
about what should change in the next print ad campaign.

When managing email so you can find what you want later, most people
gravitate to filing messages in mailboxes (sometimes called folders) or
searching, though we find that a combination is usually best.​

### Find Email in Mailboxes

Many people have traditionally used a hierarchical filing structure to
organize their email, creating a mailbox for each project. (There's
generally little benefit in creating mailboxes for people or date ranges
because it's easy to search for messages from specific people or between
certain dates.)

So, much as with files, you might have a top-level mailbox for Clients
and a sub-mailbox for each client, including the Belvedere Hotel. You
could make additional sub-mailboxes for different Belvedere Hotel
projects, but unless you expect to receive a lot of email for each of
those projects, increasing the depth of the hierarchy is often
unnecessary and extra work.

It's unnecessary because date sorting options usually make it easy to
home in on the message you want even when the mailbox contains hundreds
of messages. Plus, the more granular your filing approach, the more
manual filing you'll have to do to ensure that every message ends up in
the right place. Worse, many messages will likely cross projects, as
could happen in a discussion of a print ad when your contact mentions
that they want to reuse the text and graphics in the next email blast
too. Should it go in a Print Ads mailbox or an Email Blasts mailbox?
Don't waste time deciding---just leave it in a general Belvedere Hotel
mailbox.

How do messages end up in these mailboxes? You can always file messages
manually, and you'll spend some time doing that, no matter what.
However, whenever possible, you want to create rules (also known as
filters) that file messages automatically. Rules look through every
incoming message and take actions---including moving to a mailbox---on
messages that match the criteria you specify. For sanity's sake, you
want to make your rules as general as possible.

For instance, you could make a rule that moved messages from your
contact at the Belvedere Hotel to your associated mailbox. That would
work initially, but it would fail if you regularly work with multiple
people there or if someone else fills in while your contact is on
vacation. So instead of creating a rule that looks for a specific email
address or even a set of email addresses, set your rule to look for all
messages from the belvederehotel.com domain.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221203Tw/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Let's assume a colleague asks you for details on the latest Belvedere
Hotel print ad. How do you find that information? Here's how we'd go
about it:

-   Open the Belvedere Hotel mailbox, sort by date if necessary, and
    scroll through the list of recent messages. Most of the time, the
    message you need to find has arrived recently, and you'll remember
    the sender and subject well enough to pick it out.

-   If you can't identify the message quickly by scanning, search for it
    based on the sender or recipient, date, and keywords. Look first
    within the mailbox where you think the message is located, but if
    that fails, broaden the search to all your mailboxes.

The reason to start with a scan of the mailbox is that it's usually the
most efficient. However, if you know a message is old or can't remember
the sender, you may be better off starting with a search.

If you can't easily build rules to move most of your email into the
appropriate mailboxes, that's a hint that a search-first approach might
work better for you. You shouldn't be spending a lot of your time filing
email---that's what computers are for!​

### Search for Email

When Google launched Gmail in 2004, the company introduced a new way of
managing email that leveraged the company's strength in search. The
subsequent popularity of Gmail---which now has over 1.8 billion active
users worldwide---means that a great number of people now default to
searching when they want to find particular email messages, regardless
of which email service they use.

A search-first approach can be fast and effective and doesn't require
that you file messages into mailboxes. For instance, if you always get
email about Belvedere Hotel ad campaign details from the same person, it
may be faster to search for email from that person first, rather than
looking through a mailbox.

Searching rather than browsing for email works best for people whose
work doesn't break down neatly into categories or regularly cuts across
multiple projects. But it's not for everyone. For a search-first
approach to be effective:

-   You must have the sort of brain that remembers details to use as
    search terms. If you're more in the "I know it when I see it" camp,
    you may find searching less effective.

-   Your email must contain sufficiently unusual keywords that searching
    for a person and a keyword or two is likely to find the message you
    want.

-   You have to keep most messages. That may seem obvious, but if you
    delete a lot of incoming messages, you'll likely remember messages
    you won't be able to find.

-   Your email app must search quickly and accurately. Gmail is the gold
    standard, but other email apps have decent search capabilities.

Although we're all familiar with searching in Google---and if you like
searching the Web, you'll probably like searching your email---a few
tricks will make your email searches more likely to succeed:

-   Start with a focused search term---usually a person or unique
    keyword---that's the most likely to give you the smallest number of
    results to scan for the message you want.

-   When searching for a person's name, if your email app offers to
    autocomplete to that person's email address, let it. This is because
    searching for "smith" is much less likely to work well than
    "<johnqsmith1999@example.com>."
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221203Tw/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   You can specify whether the person for whom you're searching was the
    sender or the recipient, which helps reduce the number of results
    for people who appear regularly in your email.

-   If you're looking for an attached file, you can usually specify that
    your search should return only messages that contain attachments,
    perhaps even just specific file types.

-   When you can't remember much about the contents of the desired
    message, try to remember surrounding details, such as when the
    message might have been sent or who else might have received it, and
    add those terms to your search.

Precisely how you formulate these searches will vary by email app, but
check these pages for details on using
[Mail](https://support.apple.com/guide/mail/search-for-emails-mlhlp1003/mac),
[Outlook](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/search-in-the-new-outlook-for-mac-9c2e737e-050f-4125-addc-fa20fd03f291),
and [Gmail](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/7190?hl=en)

### Choose the Best of Both Worlds

In reality, neither solely browsing through mailboxes nor relying
entirely on search is likely to be satisfying. Those who file everything
will find themselves needing to search within mailboxes at times, and
those who prefer searching may find that using rules to store easily
identified messages in associated mailboxes (mailing lists, for
instance, or all email from your organization's domain) makes searching
easier.