---
layout: post
date: '2022-02-10'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/looking-for-a-new-email-provider--try-these-services/
published: true
title: "Looking for a New Email Provider? Try These Services"
description: "Looking for a New Email Provider? Try These Services"
blogimgpath: 20220201Lo
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-EmailProvider.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-EmailProvider.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
If you're completely happy with your email provider, move on, there's
nothing to see here. But if you're unhappy with your provider's
reliability, spam filtering, or stability as a business, or if you're
tired of having a 1990s-style address from aol.com or hotmail.com, you
can switch. There are innumerable email providers, and many are
undoubtedly good at what they do. But we've seen these services
performing the best over the years. We'll start with recommendations for
business and then look at options for individuals.​

### Business Accounts

For a business, email is essential. You cannot put up with downtime,
lost email, unpredictable spam filters, or any other nonsense. Plus, you
need support for custom domains, multiple users, role accounts,
two-factor authentication, and an admin console where you can manage it
all (or someone can manage it for you). Although there are other
providers in this space, the safe choices are Google and Microsoft. (We
realize this falls into the category of "No one ever got fired for
buying IBM." It's basically true in this case---email isn't an area to
experiment with unknown quantities.)

-   **[Google Workspace](https://workspace.google.com/):** Previously
    known as G Suite, Google Workspace brings together Google's
    well-known collaboration tools, including Gmail, Calendar, Drive,
    Docs, Sheets, Forms, Slides, and so on. Pricing starts at $6 per
    user per month and includes 30 GB of cloud storage per user;
    $12/user/month increases that to 2 TB. The big win of Google
    Workspace is that it provides a first-class experience for use
    within a Web browser. Google also provides iOS apps, and Apple's
    Mail apps can access Gmail via IMAP.

-   **[Microsoft
    365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/business):**
    Previously known as Office 365 (what is it with all this renaming?)
    Microsoft 365 offers Web and mobile versions of the Office apps
    (Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote) along with hosted
    email with a 50 GB per user mailbox. 1 TB of OneDrive cloud storage
    space is standard, along with online meetings and video calls using
    Microsoft Teams. The Basic plan costs only $5/user/month, but to
    get the desktop versions of the Office apps, you need at least the
    Standard plan, which runs $12.50/user/month.

The main way to decide between Google Workspace and Microsoft 365 is to
examine how focused your business is on core productivity apps. If
you're already relying heavily on Word, Excel, and PowerPoint, it makes
sense to go with Microsoft. However, if your company is more Web-based
or uses a variety of non-Microsoft productivity apps, Google is probably
the better option.

Either way, it's a big decision, and please check with us before making
any major moves. Depending on your situation, there may be less obvious
reasons to choose one or the other, or even a third option that's
perfect for your situation. Plus, transitioning between providers may
require significant work to ensure that you retain all your email
archives.​

### Individual Accounts

For individual users, you want reliability and good spam filtering, and
some people might appreciate being able to use a custom domain name.
However, most people don't need support for multiple users, an admin
console, or other big-company features. Plus, you probably don't want to
pay much, if anything. Again, tons of companies offer email---many for
free---but the ones we recommend are Apple, Google, and Fastmail:

-   **[iCloud Mail](https://www.apple.com/icloud/):** Nearly every Apple
    user has an iCloud account associated with their Apple ID, and with
    it comes iCloud Mail. It's a fine choice for basic email, making it
    easy to access your messages on all your Apple devices and even on
    the Web at iCloud.com. Apple provides 5 GB of storage for free,
    which might seem like plenty for email, but it's shared with iCloud
    Backup, iCloud Photos, iCloud Drive, and more, so it's easy to run
    out. For more storage, upgrade to
    [iCloud+](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201238), which costs
    $0.99 for 50 GB, $2.99 for 200 GB, and $9.99 for 2 TB. With
    iCloud+, you also get the option of adding a [custom domain
    name](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212514), though it's a
    rather involved process. The main thing we don't like about iCloud
    Mail is that Apple sometimes goes overboard with spam filtering.

-   **[Gmail](https://www.google.com/gmail/about/):** The most popular
    email service in the world is Google's Gmail, with well over 1.5
    billion users. Although the default way to access Gmail is through a
    Web browser on a Mac or the Gmail app on an iPhone or iPad, you can
    enable IMAP support to access it using Apple's Mail apps. There's
    also a highly regarded new Gmail-specific macOS app in development
    called [Mimestream](https://mimestream.com/). Gmail provides 15 GB
    of storage for free, which is enough to hold most people for quite
    some time, and more storage is available inexpensively. Gmail's spam
    filtering is generally very good, and unlike iCloud, it doesn't
    delete any filtered messages without allowing you to see them first.

-   **[Fastmail](https://www.fastmail.com/):** In contrast with iCloud
    Mail and Gmail, Fastmail isn't free---it costs $3/user/month for
    the Basic plan, but that's limited to just 2 GB of storage, doesn't
    support a custom domain, and requires that you ​​use Fastmail Web and
    mobile apps. For $5/user/month, the Standard plan increases the
    storage to 30 GB, lets you set up your own custom domain, and
    provides full IMAP access so you can use Apple's Mail or any other
    standard email app. The big reasons to choose Fastmail are the
    company's focus on privacy and to support a firm that does nothing
    but email.

Although switching your personal email isn't as difficult as changing
email providers is for a business, it's still not something to be
undertaken lightly. Contact us if you need advice on which service
provider would be best for you and if you need assistance setting up
forwards and bringing your old mail over to your new account.