---
layout: post
date: '2022-10-09'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/security-questions-your-organization-should-be-asking-itself/
published: true
title: "Cybersecurity Awareness Month: Security Questions Your Organization Should Be Asking Itself"
description: "Cybersecurity Awareness Month: Security Questions Your Organization Should Be Asking Itself"
blogimgpath: 20221005Se
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Security.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Security.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
We're increasingly hearing from organizations that need to establish
that they have sufficient security policies in place, either to meet the
requirements of a larger client or to qualify for cyber insurance that
insures against breaches and similar losses. Details vary, and we're
happy to work with you on the specifics, but here are some of the kinds
of questions you may be asked. Of course, if you don't have to prove
that you're doing the right thing to some other company, answering these
questions for yourself can only improve your security readiness.​

### Do you enroll all organizational devices in a device management solution?

With device management, an IT department or managed services provider
(MSP) maintains oversight and control over all organizational devices.
That's helpful for automating configuration and deployment, providing
secure access to organizational resources, ensuring consistent security
policies, managing app and operating system updates, tracking device
inventory and status, and much more.​

### Do you have an organization-wide backup strategy with offsite backups?

Regular backups---with some being stored offsite---are essential if you
need to recover from lost or stolen hardware, a natural disaster, or a
ransomware attack. Even though ransomware isn't currently a major
problem in the Mac world, it wouldn't hurt to start creating immutable
backups using "write once, read many" tape or something like
[Retrospect's Cloud Object
Lock](https://www.retrospect.com/en/ransomware), a technology that
ensures that cloud-based backups can't be corrupted. Finally, have you
tested restoration and recovery of key systems from your backup data?
Backup is important, but only if you can restore.​

### Do you have a policy for updates?

It's essential to install security-related updates to operating systems
and major apps, but how quickly that happens has to be weighed against
problems that version changes can cause for important workflows. There's
no right answer here, but you want to make sure that you aren't leaving
your organization's apps and devices vulnerable to known security
exploits for longer than necessary.​

### Do you have a strong password management policy?

Short, easily guessed, or cracked passwords are one of the primary ways
attackers breach corporate networks and systems. At minimum, your
password management policy should require that all passwords be stored
in a password manager, new passwords be generated by the password
manager and meet minimum requirements for strength, and two-factor
authentication be used when available.​

### Do you use an endpoint protection platform?

Endpoint protection is essentially software aimed at preventing and
detecting malware on employee workstations, often with an organizational
dashboard and management capabilities. Although the Mac doesn't have
nearly the exposure to malware that Windows does, it's still important
to keep computers free of malware that could hurt performance,
exfiltrate data, or provide an entry point for future attacks. Endpoint
protection is usually part of a larger managed systems approach that can
also ensure that devices adhere to security policies like full disk
encryption, run only approved software, stay up to date with security
updates, and more. ​

### Do you have a list of sensitive data on your network?

Exactly what counts as sensitive data will vary by organization, but
anything related to network and corporate security qualifies, as does
any personally identifiable information you may hold about or for
clients. It's not uncommon to store information about people that
includes names, email addresses, phone numbers, and postal addresses,
but you should be even more careful if you store Social Security
numbers, credit card numbers, driver's licenses, passports, financial
records, or medical records. Knowing what you have is the first step;
after that, consider what additional precautions you should take to
protect such information.​

### Do you provide periodic anti-fraud and security training to employees?

Social engineering is another common way attackers gain access to
corporate networks and systems. Does your organization require that all
employees take regular training to learn how to identify phishing
attacks, require appropriate approvals for unusual transactions or
access requests, and report suspected incidents to the necessary people?
If an administrative aide in the accounting department gets an email
request from the CEO to pay an urgent invoice to a new vendor, will that
person know how to respond?​

### Do you allow access to organizational email and systems from personal devices?

It's tempting to allow users to access their email from personal devices
or to have contractors use their personal email addresses for work
communications. We recommend keeping as clear a line as possible between
work and personal devices and accounts to reduce the security
implications of such mixing. Particularly when there's sensitive
information in play, personal email addresses should never be used for
work communications, and if personal devices are being used, they should
be set up with two-factor authentication for organizational logins.​

### Do you have incident and disaster response plans?

Bad things happen, and it's important to consider how you would respond
to different types of security incidents and natural disasters. How will
your organization maintain crucial business operations, communicate with
employees, coordinate with partners (insurance, legal, PR, and clients),
and more? Is your plan written down and updated regularly? Have you
tested key aspects of your plan?

We know there's a lot to think about regarding security in today's
world, and we're always available to help if you'd like assistance
answering any of the above questions.