---
layout: post
date: '2022-12-21'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/these-new-years-resolutions-will-improve-your-digital-security-in-2023/
published: true
title: These New Years Resolutions Will Improve Your Digital Security in 2023
description: These New Years Resolutions Will Improve Your Digital Security in 2023
blogimgpath: 20221203Th
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-NewYearsCel.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-NewYearsCel.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
Happy New Year! For many of us, starting a new year means reflecting on
fresh habits we'd like to adopt. Although we certainly support any
resolutions you may have made to get enough sleep, eat better, reduce
social media usage, and exercise more, could we suggest a few that will
improve your digital security and reduce the chances that bad things
will happen to you online?

### Keep Your Devices Updated

One important thing you can do to protect your security is to install
new operating system updates and security updates soon after Apple
releases them. Although the details seldom make the news because they're
both highly specific and highly technical, you can get a sense of how
important security updates are by the fact that a typical update
addresses 20--40 vulnerabilities that Apple or outside researchers have
identified. Some are even zero-day vulnerabilities that are already
being exploited in the wild.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221203Th/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

It's usually a good idea to wait a week or so after an update appears
before installing it, on the off chance that it has undesirable side
effects. Although such problems are uncommon, when they do happen, Apple
pulls the update quickly, fixes it, and releases it again, usually
within a few days.

### Use a Password Manager

We'll keep banging the password manager drum until the replacement for
passwords,
[passkeys](https://support.apple.com/guide/iphone/sign-in-with-passkeys-iphf538ea8d0/ios),
have become ubiquitous, and that will take years. Until then, if you're
still typing passwords in by hand or copying and pasting from a list you
keep in a file, please switch to a password manager like
[1Password](https://1password.com/) or
[LastPass](https://www.lastpass.com/). Even Apple's built-in [password
manager](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211145) and [iCloud
Keychain](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204085) are fine, if not as
fully featured as the others. A password manager offers five huge
benefits:

-   **It generates strong passwords for you.** Mypassword1 can be hacked
    in seconds.
    
-   **It stores your passwords securely.** An Excel file on your Desktop
    is a recipe for disaster.

-   **It enters passwords for you.** Wouldn't that be easier than typing
    them in manually?

-   **It audits existing accounts.** How many of your accounts use the
    same password?

-   **It lets you access passwords on all your devices.** Finally, easy
    logins on your iPhone!

A bonus benefit for families is password sharing. It allows, for
example, a married couple to share essential passwords or parents and
teens to share specific passwords.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221203Th/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


In short, using a password manager is faster, easier, more secure, and
just all-around better. If you need help getting started, get in touch.

### Beware of Phishing Email

Individuals and businesses alike frequently suffer from security lapses
caused by phishing, forged email that fools someone into revealing login
credentials, credit card numbers, or other sensitive information.
Although spam filters catch many phishing attempts, you must always be
on your guard. Here's what to watch for:

-   Any email that tries to get you to reveal information, follow a
    link, or sign a document

-   Messages from people you don't know, asking you to take an unusual
    action

-   Direct email from a large company for whom you're an anonymous
    customer

-   Forged email from a trusted source asking for sensitive information

-   All messages that contain numerous spelling and grammar mistakes

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221203Th/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


When in doubt, don't follow the link or reply to the email. Instead,
contact the sender another way to see if the message is legit.

### Avoid Sketchy Websites

We won't belabor this one, but suffice it to say that you're much more
likely to pick up malware from sites on the fringes of the Web or that
cater to the vices of society. The more you can avoid sites that provide
pirated software, "adult" content, gambling opportunities, or sales of
illicit substances, the safer you'll be. That's not to say that
reputable sites haven't been hacked and used to distribute malware, but
it's far less common.

If you are concerned after spending time in the darker corners of the
Web, download a free copy of
[Malwarebytes](https://www.malwarebytes.com/) or [VirusBarrier
Scanner](https://www.intego.com/virusbarrier-scanner) and scan for
malware manually.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221203Th/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Never Respond to Unsolicited Calls or Texts

Although phishing happens mostly via email, scammers have also taken to
using texts and phone calls. Thanks to weaknesses in the telephone
system, such texts and calls can appear to come from well-known
companies, including Apple and Amazon. Even worse, with so much online
ordering, fake text messages pretending to help you track packages are
becoming more common.For texts, avoid following links unless
you recognize the sender and it makes sense that you'd be receiving such
a link. (For instance, Apple can text delivery details related to your
orders.) Regardless, never enter login information at a site you've
reached by following a link because there's no way to know if it's real.
Instead, if you want to learn more, navigate the company's site manually
by entering its URL, then log in.

For phone calls from companies, unless you're expecting a call back from
a support ticket you opened, don't answer. Let the call go to voicemail,
and if you feel it's important to respond, look up the company's phone
number elsewhere and talk with someone at that number rather than the
one provided by the voicemail.

Let's raise a glass to staying safe online in 2023!