---
layout: post
date: '2022-06-20'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/take-advantage-of-carplay-in-rental-cars-while-traveling/
published: true
title: Take Advantage of CarPlay in Rental Cars While Traveling
description: Take Advantage of CarPlay in Rental Cars While Traveling
blogimgpath: 20220603Ta
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CarPlay.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CarPlay.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
Renting a car has become more interesting in recent years due to changes
automakers have been making to car electronics. For example, Apple's
[CarPlay](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT205634) is becoming a common
feature on rental cars. That lets you run Apple Maps or Google Maps on
your iPhone while displaying the map on the car's built-in screen and
routing spoken directions through the car's speakers. It's way better
than trying to prop your iPhone on the dash for navigation directions.

Although there are no guarantees, rental cars are usually recent models,
so it's likely that if one has a screen, it will support CarPlay. Look
for some indication on the screen, see if the car is in [Apple's list of
supported models](https://www.apple.com/ios/carplay/available-models/),
or check the car's manual in the glove compartment. (Car manuals are
universally terrible, but search for CarPlay in the index.) It might
even be worth asking at the rental car desk if it's possible to get a
CarPlay-enabled car.

CarPlay setup should be easy. It will add only a few minutes to the time
you already spend adjusting seats and mirrors and familiarizing yourself
with the car's controls. Start by plugging your iPhone into the car's
USB jack with a Lightning cable to see if that's sufficient to start
pairing. If the car supports only wireless CarPlay, you'll instead tap a
button on the screen or hold down the voice control button on the
steering wheel to initiate pairing.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220603Ta/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


You may be prompted to transfer contacts and favorites to the car for
access via Bluetooth, but don't bother---you can access everything you
need on your iPhone via CarPlay. There's no worry about CarPlay
revealing any of your information to later car renters.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220603Ta/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


(It's worth keeping a Lightning cable in the car for the entire trip
because GPS navigation drains iPhone batteries quickly. Keep the iPhone
plugged in to ensure you have power for other activities. Remember,
CarPlay just sends the iPhone's display and audio to the car---the
iPhone is still doing all the navigational work, so CarPlay won't do you
any good if your iPhone is drained.)

Once configured, CarPlay will likely display a map on screen---that's
Apple's Maps. Assuming you want to leave the rental car agency and get
on the road, bring up directions to your destination in Maps on the
iPhone, and everything will start appearing directly on the car's
screen. If you don't hear spoken directions, make sure the car stereo's
volume is turned up.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220603Ta/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


You can control CarPlay with the car's touchscreen or Siri: use "Hey,
Siri," press the voice control button on the steering wheel, or touch
and hold a button on the car's screen. That's helpful for playing music
from your iPhone instead of suffering with random radio stations. Stick
with searching for new destinations in Maps when you're not driving,
however, since using any unfamiliar car interface distracts from driving
safely, especially when you're in a new location.

The icons on the left sidebar of the CarPlay display give you access to
recent mapping and audio apps, plus Settings. Tap the bottom icon to
switch to a tile view that shows the map, Now Playing, and favorite
destinations.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220603Ta/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


If you're staying in the same location for several days, set its address
as a favorite in Maps so it's easy to navigate back to it merely by
tapping a button on the car's touchscreen. Although Maps works well, if
you prefer Google Maps, you can now use that instead. Just start
navigating in Google Maps, and CarPlay should automatically bring it
up---you can also tap the bottom icon when in tile view to switch to a
Home screen-like view of all apps and tap Google Maps there. If you have
to swipe left to find the app you want, adjust the icon order on the
iPhone in Settings > General > CarPlay > *Car Name* > Customize.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220603Ta/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


On subsequent trips, CarPlay should connect automatically and be
available for use within a minute or two of starting the car. [If it
doesn't](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT210892), you may need to
restart the phone, turn the car off and on again, or even start over by
deleting the connection from the car and using Settings > General >
CarPlay > *Car Name* > Forget This Car. You may need to delete the
Bluetooth pairing from the car first.

There's [much more to
CarPlay](https://support.apple.com/en-us/guide/iphone/iphf33a514c9/ios),
but you're traveling, so spend your time relaxing and enjoying the trip
rather than fussing with technology!