---
layout: post
date: '2022-05-22'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/copy-and-paste-like-a-pro-with-a-clipboard-utility/
published: true
title: Copy and Paste Like a Pro with a Clipboard Utility
description: Copy and Paste Like a Pro with a Clipboard Utility
blogimgpath: 20220506Co
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CutandPaste.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CutandPaste.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
or our money, perhaps the most unheralded innovation of the computer
age is Copy and Paste. No one thinks about the clipboard---that virtual
shelf where copied text and images sit---because it just works. We all
use Command-C to copy something and Command-V to paste it without having
to retype the text, reimport the graphic, or whatever. Copy and Paste is
a huge timesaver because it lets you reuse or build on work already
done.

What if you could make Copy and Paste even more powerful? With the right
clipboard utility installed on your Mac, you gain two major new
features:

-   **Use clipboard history to access previously copied data.** Every
    time you copy something to the clipboard, it replaces whatever was
    there before. With a clipboard utility, though, you can see a list
    of items you've previously copied to the clipboard and paste any one
    of them, which is vastly easier than finding and copying the data
    again. Clipboard utilities even preserve your clipboard history
    across restarts.

-   **Filter or edit the data on the clipboard before pasting.** This
    capability is useful, for instance, if you copied styled text but
    want to paste plain text, if there's a mistake in the contents of
    the clipboard that would be hard to fix after pasting, or if you
    want to replace all double spaces in the copied text with single
    spaces.

Which clipboard utility is right for you depends on what else you might
want it to do, or you might even have one installed without realizing
it. That's because clipboard enhancements are a bit like blades in a
Swiss Army knife: they tend to be bundled into other utilities. You
won't go wrong with any of these clipboard boosters: the dedicated
clipboard helper Copy 'Em, the launcher LaunchBar, and the macro utility
Keyboard Maestro. And while we're highlighting these three, there are
innumerable other great utilities that offer similar features.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220506Co/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="300" />

[Copy'Em](http://www.apprywhere.com/copy-em-paste.html) (\$14.99) focuses on
clipboard enhancements, bundling nearly every clipboard-related feature
you could want into an attractive interface. It offers a full clipboard
history, makes it easy to paste multiple items quickly or in a batch,
can transform pasted text in various ways, and lets you organize
clippings into groups. It also enables you to edit text clippings,
search for text in your clippings, and ignore apps whose clipboard
changes clutter your clipboard history. There's even a [separate version
for the iPhone and iPad](https://apprywhere.com/ce-ios.html), should you
want to share your clipboard history with your other devices. Other
well-known clipboard utilities include
[CopyPaste](https://plumamazing.com/product/copypaste/) (\$30),
[Paste](https://pasteapp.io/) (\$14.99 per year), and
[Pastebot](https://tapbots.com/pastebot/) (\$12.99).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220506Co/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="300" />

[LaunchBar](https://www.obdev.at/products/launchbar/index.html)
(\$29) is a keyboard-focused launcher, so its primary feature is opening
or switching to an application or file by typing a hotkey followed by a
few letters from the name of the app or file. That's hugely useful in
its own right, but LaunchBar also maintains a filterable clipboard
history across restarts, lets you paste a clipping as plain text, and
can merge copied text with whatever is already on the clipboard. Other
apps in this category include [Alfred](https://www.alfredapp.com/) (with
the optional Â£34 Powerpack), [Butler](https://manytricks.com/butler/)
(\$20), and [QuickSilver](https://qsapp.com/) (donationware).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220506Co/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="300" />

[Keyboard Maestro](https://www.keyboardmaestro.com/) (\$36) is a macro utility,
which means that it lets you string together a series of actions---copy
this, switch apps, click there, paste, and switch back, for
instance---and then invoke that series with a trigger such as a hotkey,
menu command, timer, or system activity. Keyboard Maestro offers
hundreds of actions and numerous triggers, but from the clipboard
perspective, it provides a persistent clipboard history, multiple named
clipboards, filtering of clipboard contents when pasting, removal of
styles from pasted text, and a user-specified hotkey for anything you
want to do.


Regardless of which of these utilities you choose, you'll soon be
juggling the contents of your clipboard like a pro...and wasting a lot
less time!