---
layout: post
date: '2022-07-24'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/get-some-color-on-your-mac-this-summer-with-the-color-picker/
published: true
title: "Get Some Color (On Your Mac) This Summer with the Color Picker"
description: "Get Some Color (On Your Mac) This Summer with the Color Picker"
blogimgpath: 20220706Ge
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-ColorPicker.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-ColorPicker.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
If you're over 40, you probably remember the point in *The Wizard of Oz*
where the movie switches from black-and-white to Technicolor (and if
not, go see it!). It wasn't the first color film, but the vibrant images
of Dorothy's ruby slippers, the yellow brick road, and the Emerald City
helped make the movie a classic.

On the Mac, whenever you want to fill a drawing with color, colorize
some text, or format spreadsheet cells in color, you need to use the
Colors window, commonly called the color picker. Like many long-standing
elements of the Mac experience, most people have seen and used it, but
don't realize how much it can do. How you bring it up varies by app but
usually entails clicking a color button associated with styles or
formats.

The Colors window has three sections: buttons for the color pickers at
the top, their individual controls in the middle, and user-specified
swatches at the bottom.​

### Color Pickers

Click the buttons at the top to switch between these pickers:

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Ge/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


-   **Color Wheel:** This picker is useful for exploring a wide range of
    colors. Pay attention to the brightness slider at the bottom, which
    changes the colors in the wheel above.


-   **Color Sliders:** Use these sliders to specify particular grayscale
    brightnesses or RGB, CMYK, or HSB colors by number. You can also
    enter a hex color number directly. Or, you can find a color with
    another picker or the eyedropper tool and then look up its exact
    values here. Desktop publishers use this feature a lot, as do Web
    designers trying to determine hex colors. When matching colors with
    outside sources, click the gear button to choose the appropriate
    industry standard color palette before picking a color.


-   **Color Palettes:** This picker shows color swatches from different
    custom palettes. Use the ••• button to make, add, rename, and delete
    palettes. (Find them in ~/Library/Colors.) The utility of these
    palettes is that you can share your own color collections, enabling
    coworkers to use identical colors easily, or you can download and
    import palettes for different uses, such as land-use categories for
    maps.


-   **Image Palettes:** Click the ••• button here to load a new image,
    after which you can select any color in that image by clicking it.
    This picker could be useful for matching colors in a layout with
    those in a photo.


-   **Pencils:** They used to be crayons, but then Apple got
    sophisticated. Or stopped licensing the names from Crayola.

Within each color picker, it's usually obvious how to select different
colors. Click the wheel, move the sliders, enter red-green-blue
percentages, and so on. The selected color, which should be applied to
the selection in your drawing or text, appears in the large square color
well at the bottom left. If your selection doesn't pick up the desired
color, try dragging the color well in the lower section to a
corresponding color box in your app.​

### Eyedropper

The Colors window offers another extremely useful way to select a color:
the eyedropper. Find it in the bottom portion of the window, and click
it to see a circular loupe that magnifies anything under it. Move the
loupe until the single pixel in the middle is over the color you want,
and then click. If you press the Space bar while the loupe is showing,
the loupe displays the RGB values of that pixel.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Ge/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Swatch Drawer

What are those little squares to the right of the eyedropper? That area
is called the swatch drawer, and it's where you store particular color
swatches that you want to use repeatedly. To create a swatch, drag the
color from the big color well into a swatch square. You can pick a color
swatch up and move it around, so you can arrange your swatches in a way
you'll remember. Swatches you store here become available in all Mac
apps, so it's a great way to ensure you're using the same colors
everywhere.

To use a swatch, just click it. It immediately becomes the selected
color in the color well and is applied to whatever object you're
editing.

To remove a swatch, drag it to the right of the swatch squares and let
go just inside the right edge of the Colors window (if this doesn't
work, expand the window to the right as much as possible before another
column of squares appears, then try again).

By default, you see twenty swatch squares in two rows, but the swatch
drawer has room for hundreds of squares! Expand just the drawer
vertically by dragging the divider line at its top, or expand the entire
window vertically or horizontally by dragging any edge or corner.

Now that we've looked into the heart of the color picker to provide you
with more knowledge, we hope you'll find the courage to use colors more
confidently in your everyday Mac work!

