---
layout: post
date: '2022-05-06'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/understanding-what-vintage-and-obsolete-mean-for-apple-products/
published: true
title: Understanding What Vintage and Obsolete Mean for Apple Products
description: Understanding What Vintage and Obsolete Mean for Apple Products
blogimgpath: 20220506Un
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-VintageJeans.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-VintageJeans.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Macs---and Apple products in general---tend to last a long time. It's
not unusual to see someone happily using an 8-year-old MacBook Pro. As
much as it's environmentally responsible to use electronics as long as
possible, doing so may reduce your productivity or leave your business
in a precarious situation if a hardware failure forces an upgrade at an
inconvenient time.

Another factor to consider is whether or not you can get service and
parts for your older device. It's easy to assume that Apple will fix
whatever you bring in, but unfortunately, that's not the case. Apple has
policies surrounding how long it guarantees to provide service and
parts, which is reasonable. No one would expect Apple to repair a 128K
Mac from 1984---many repair techs hadn't even been born then.

All Apple products fall into one of three categories: current, vintage,
and obsolete. Current products, which Apple defines as those that were
sold within the last 5 years, are eligible for service and parts from
Apple, Apple Authorized Service Providers, and Independent Repair
Providers. In other words, if you bought your Mac new within the last 5
years, you won't have any problem getting Apple to fix it.

(Independent Repair Providers are firms that have signed up for Apple's
Independent Repair Provider Program to provide out-of-warranty iPhone
and Mac repairs using Apple-provided parts, tools, service guides, and
diagnostics. Other repair shops can repair Apple products but may lack
Apple certifications and have to source parts from other suppliers.)

Things get trickier with the other two categories:

-   **Vintage:** Apple considers a product to be *vintage* when the
    company stopped selling it more than 5 and less than 7 years ago.
    During this 2-year window, Apple says that service and parts may be
    obtained, subject to parts availability.

-   **Obsolete:** As you'd expect, a product is considered *obsolete*
    when Apple hasn't sold it for more than 7 years. Apple will not
    service obsolete products, and service providers cannot order parts
    for them.

There is one exception to these policies. Mac laptops may be eligible
for an extended battery-only repair period for up to 10 years from when
the product was last distributed for sale, subject to parts
availability. That makes sense since a new battery may be all an old
MacBook needs to keep working.

Apple maintains a page listing [all vintage and obsolete
products](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201624). To determine which
Mac model you have, choose About This Mac from the Apple menu. For
[iPhones](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201296),
[iPads](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201471), and
[iPods](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204217), Apple provides pages
explaining how to identify your model.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220506Un/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Apple's policies surrounding vintage and obsolete products shouldn't
make a huge difference to most users. That's because once a Mac hits 5
years old, it's likely that upgrading to a new model will provide
significant benefits. Many businesses prefer a 3-year replacement cycle
because they've determined that's the sweet spot where increasing
support costs and lower performance make it worth selling the old Mac
and buying a new one that's faster and more reliable.

Of course, there's nothing wrong with keeping a Mac longer if it meets
your needs and you don't mind spending more on support. At some point,
though, products in the vintage and obsolete categories are living on
borrowed time.