---
layout: post
date: '2022-12-27'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/sharing-netflix-disney-other-passwords-is-illegal-according-to-new-guidance/
published: true
title: "Sharing Netflix, Disney, other passwords is illegal according to new guidance"
description: "Sharing Netflix, Disney, other passwords is illegal according to new guidance"
blogimgpath: 20221226Sh
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-NetflixIll.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-NetflixIll.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
The [Intellectual Property Office
(IPO)](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/intellectual-property-office),
the UK government body overseeing intellectual property rights in the
UK, has quietly released [new
guidance](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/meta-counterfeit-and-piracy-campaign) on [piracy](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/meta-counterfeit-and-piracy-campaign/the-effect-of-piracy) and
online [counterfeit
goods](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/meta-counterfeit-and-piracy-campaign/the-effect-of-counterfeit-goods).
This campaign is a joint effort between IPO and Meta, Facebook's parent
company.

The general issue on piracy is about the use of [illegal streaming
boxes](https://www.which.co.uk/reviews/tv-streamers/article/kodi-boxes-everything-you-need-to-know-aFF265I905eN) and
apps and how these not only expose children to age-inappropriate content
due to lack of parental control but also risk putting sensitive personal
information in the hands of hackers and digital thieves. What\'s
noteworthy---[as TorrentFreak pointed
out](https://torrentfreak.com/uk-govt-netflix-password-sharing-is-illegal-potentially-criminal-fraud-221219/)---is
that the UK now flags **password sharing**, a most talked-about issue in
the realm of streaming services, as piracy. Therefore, it is illegal and
a potential crime.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221226Sh/image1.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

A section of the new piracy guidance from
the UK government's Intellectual Property Office (IPO), who worked with
Meta to create the campaign (highlight ours). (Source: GOV.UK)

When TorrentFreak reached out to the IPO for clarification, it was told:
\"There are a range of provisions in criminal and civil law which may be
applicable in the case of password sharing where the intent is to allow
a user to access copyright-protected works without payment.\"

\"These provisions may include breach of contractual terms, fraud or
secondary copyright infringement depending on the circumstances.\"

Under Section 11 of [the Fraud Act of
2006](https://www.cps.gov.uk/legal-guidance/fraud-act-2006) in the UK,
someone using \"services of a members\' club without paying and without
being a member\" is considered fraud.

It\'s unlikely that streaming services are going to start dragging
password-sharing subscribers and moochers (those who borrow subscriber
credentials) to court, but the guidance could serve as (1) a deterrent
for people who're thinking about sharing their subscriber credentials
and (2) a good conversation starter between the subscriber and the
relative or friend who doesn\'t live with them but shared their
credentials with them.

**A lose-lose situation**

Regardless of how the UK public takes the IPO's new guidance, the fact
remains that sharing one's streaming service credentials with others is
risky, security- and privacy-wise, for subscribers and usually yields
negative results for the service provider. That said, these providers
could lose money and will continue to as long as they let this behavior
go on. According to [survey
findings](https://www.beyondidentity.com/blog/moochers-accounts) from
Beyond Identity, a passwordless identity platform, streaming services,
on average, lose \$642 per account moocher each year. 

It also said that HBO Max stands to lose the most at around \$700 a year
per moocher.

And let's not forget the cost of
piracy [estimated](https://www.parksassociates.com/blog/article/pr-01152020#:~:text=This%20report%20complements%20a%202019,to%20piracy%20in%20North%20America.) by
Parks Associates, a research firm, in 2019. The report reveals that US
video providers, which include streaming services, lost \$9.1B to
credential sharing. This amount is estimated to rise to \$12.5B by 2024.

With such figures, a crackdown is inevitable---and everyone knows it.

In October,
Netflix [announced](https://www.theverge.com/2022/10/18/23411275/netflix-password-sharing-ad-supported-launch-crackdown-adds-subscribers) its
plan to do just that in 2023. To pave the way for this, the
company [introduced](https://about.netflix.com/en/news/paying-to-share-netflix-outside-your-household) features
to members in Chile, Costa Rica, and Peru where they can share their
account with anyone outside their household safely: new profiles can be
added to accounts (for an added cost to the subscriber, of course), and
profiles can be transferred to a new account or sub-account. Expect
Netflix to follow through on its plan even after seeing
a [rise](https://www.screendaily.com/news/netflix-reports-241m-global-subs-gain-in-q3-first-increase-of-2022/) in
subscribers in Q3 this year.

The company also released a feature that lets subscribers log out of
individual devices. Lastly, in Latin America, Netflix [rolled
out](https://nerdist.com/article/netflix-stopping-password-sharing-with-price-increases/) additional
fees for using accounts outside a household associated with them.

AT&T, the company owning HBO
Max, [flags](https://www.marketingbrew.com/stories/2022/05/03/a-crackdown-on-streaming-service-password-sharing-is-coming) \"rampant\"
abuse when an account is used by many different households. Hulu limits
same-time viewing to two screens. This is called screen capping.
Disney+ [uses
technology](https://www.cbr.com/disney-plus-password-sharing-bob-iger/) at
the back end that monitors account usage. However,
it [warns](https://www.narcity.com/disney-wont-allow-you-to-password-share-and-netflix-agrees) password
sharing won't be allowed forever.

\"\[Streaming services\] don't necessarily want people to go
elsewhere,\" said Research Director of Entertainment and Consumer
Technology at Parks Associates Paul Erickson in
an [interview](https://www.marketingbrew.com/stories/2022/05/03/a-crackdown-on-streaming-service-password-sharing-is-coming).
\"We\'ll see them navigate that difficult middle ground where they're
not trying to give the service away, but they're also not trying to
drive people away either.\"

Source: [Malwarebytes
Blog](https://www.malwarebytes.com/blog/news/2022/12/sharing-netflix-disney-passwords-is-illegal-according-to-new-guidance)


