---
layout: post
date: '2022-05-28'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/block-malicious-and-adult-web-sites-with-dns-filtering/
published: true
title: Block Malicious and Adult Web Sites with DNS Filtering
description: Block Malicious and Adult Web Sites with DNS Filtering
blogimgpath: 20220506Bl
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-iPhoneDNS.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-iPhoneDNS.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
One of the best ways to keep malware from infecting your computers is to
avoid visiting websites designed to do just that. No one intentionally
visits loadmetogetinfected.com, but malware authors employ all sorts of
tricks to lure unsuspecting users into viewing malicious sites. Various
tools can help, but the easiest free technique is called *DNS
filtering*.

DNS, which is short for Domain Name System, is the Internet technology
that maps human-readable computer names like www.apple.com to the
numeric IP address of Apple's server, 17.254.0.91. Every time you click
a link to visit a new Web page, your Mac queries a DNS server to learn
the IP address associated with the domain name embedded in the link---it
all happens seamlessly and instantaneously in the background.

Typically, your Mac will automatically use the DNS servers specified by
your Internet service provider. However, you can change your DNS servers
manually, and one good reason to do so is to take advantage of DNS
servers that look at your Mac's DNS requests and refuse to resolve names
associated with malicious sites. Such DNS filtering is great since it
protects you from malicious sites without you having to do anything
special. Such sites simply won't load at all.

One more thing. DNS filtering can also block porn sites. That's helpful
if you want to avoid accidentally loading adult content or to ensure
that those in your office don't, in order to reduce the chances of a
sexual harassment complaint. As with malicious sites, filtered adult
sites just won't load.

Setting up DNS filtering is easy. All you have to do is replace your
current DNS server addresses with the IP address of a particular public
DNS service---the steps are later in this article. The two providers we
recommend are [Quad9](https://www.quad9.net/) and
[Cloudflare](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-1-1-1-1-for-families/),
both of which are free and run by reputable companies. Of the two, Quad9
is more focused on user privacy, but Cloudflare offers additional DNS
filtering capabilities that may be useful.

The options are:

-   **Quad9 malware blocking:** 9.9.9.9 with a secondary of
    149.112.112.112
-   **Cloudflare malware-only blocking:** 1.1.1.2 with a secondary of
    1.0.0.2
-   **Cloudflare malware and adult content blocking:** 1.1.1.3 with a
    secondary of 1.0.0.3

You should always enter the secondary DNS server in case the primary
server goes down. Otherwise, you wouldn't be able to connect to any
sites at all.

However, don't mix in other DNS servers. If you use Cloudflare's adult
content filter as your primary DNS server with your ISP's DNS server as
a secondary, when Cloudflare refuses to resolve an adult site, macOS
will drop down to the secondary ISP server, which will resolve it
happily, thus eliminating the utility of the Cloudflare's filtering.

One final note before you get started. Apple's [iCloud Private
Relay](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212614) service (in beta in
macOS 12 Monterey, iOS 15, and iPadOS 15) sends all your traffic through
two proxy servers, which prevents DNS filters like Quad9 and Cloudflare
from working. That's unfortunate since iCloud Private Relay is a useful
way to hide your IP address and browsing activity from your network
provider and the websites you visit. Apple is clear about this
limitation, noting in its various DNS server interfaces:

> *DNS requests are being routed by iCloud Private Relay for this
> network. Turn off Private Relay to manually configure DNS settings.*

If you need to turn off iCloud Private Relay on the Mac, open System
Preferences > Apple ID and deselect the checkbox next to Private Relay.
On an iPhone or iPad, open Settings > *Your Name* > iCloud > Private
Relay and flip the switch to Off.â€‹

### Set Up DNS Filtering in macOS

To use DNS filtering on the Mac, follow these steps, which should work
in any version of macOS. We're using Quad9 as the example here, but
replace the primary and secondary IP addresses as desired if you want to
use one of the Cloudflare filters.

1.  Open System Preferences > Network, and select the adapter you use
    (likely Wi-Fi or Ethernet) in the sidebar.

2.  Click the Advanced button, and in the sheet that appears, click DNS.

3.  Click the button under the DNS Servers list and
    enter 9.9.9.9.

4.  Click the button again and enter
    149.112.112.112.

5.  Click OK to dismiss the Advanced preferences, and click Apply.

6.  Close the Network preference pane.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220506Bl/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

It's difficult to perform a real-world test to tell if Quad9 or
Cloudflare's malware blockers are active since there's no way to know
which sites they block. However, Quad9 provides a test page at
[on.quad9.net](https://on.quad9.net/) that should help. If you use
Cloudflare's adult content filter, you can tell if it's working because
your Web browser will refuse to load adult sites.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220506Bl/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Set Up DNS Filtering in iOS and iPadOS

The steps for setting up DNS filtering in iOS and iPadOS are a bit
different. For this example, we'll use the Cloudflare malware filter,
but again, you should replace the IP addresses below with the filter you
want to use.

1.  Open Settings > Wi-Fi and tap the
    "i" button next to your current Wi-Fi
    network.

2.  Scroll down and tap Configure DNS, which is probably set to
    Automatic.

3.  On the Configure DNS screen, tap Manual.


4.  In the list of DNS servers, tap the red delete buttons next to any entries there.

5.  Tap the green Add Server button and enter 1.1.1.2.

6.  Tap the green Add Server button again and enter 1.0.0.2.

7.  Tap Save in the upper-right corner.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220506Bl/image8.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


That's it! You should have no trouble using either Quad9 or Cloudflare,
but if you need to revert to your previous DNS servers, it's easy to do.
On the Mac, just delete the manual entries you created---macOS will
automatically use the DNS servers provided by your ISP. On an iPhone or
iPad, select Automatic in the Configure DNS screen to replace the
manually entered DNS servers with those from your ISP. In either case,
if you're not going to use DNS filters, it's worth turning on iCloud
Private Relay. We hope that Apple adds DNS filtering options to iCloud
Private Relay so you could additionally choose to filter out malicious
sites and adult content.