---
layout: post
date: '2022-11-07'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/apple-is-driving-the-iphone-to-esim--here-s-what-you-need-to-know/
published: true
title: "Apple Is Driving the iPhone to eSIM? Here's What You Need to Know"
description: "Apple Is Driving the iPhone to eSIM? Here's What You Need to Know"
blogimgpath: 20221107Ap
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-eSimCards.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-eSimCards.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Perhaps the most surprising change in the iPhone 14 line, at least in
the United States, was the shift from using removable SIM cards to eSIM.

SIM cards---SIM stands for Subscriber Identity Module---have been a
fixture in the mobile phone world for many years because they provide
the unique identification necessary to connect a subscriber and a plan
with a phone. Because SIM cards are removable, you can use them to
transfer an existing plan to a new phone, switch carriers, or enable
temporary service while traveling---all by inserting the appropriate SIM
card.

But SIM cards are small, fussy, and require physical interaction, so the
industry came up with eSIM, or embedded SIM, where a programmable SIM is
integrated into the circuitry of the phone. With eSIM, you can also
activate a plan, transfer a plan to a new phone, or change carriers,
typically without interacting with customer service. You also don't have
to acquire a physical SIM, figure out how to open your phone's SIM tray,
or insert the tiny SIM card in the correct orientation without dropping
or damaging it. Plus, without a SIM slot and tray, iPhones have one less
spot where water could get in and one less moving part that could break,
and Apple doesn't have to provide a SIM tool that you'll likely lose
(and replace with a paperclip).â€‹

### Apple's eSIM Transition

[eSIM support is widespread among US
carriers](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT209096) but less so
internationally, which is why models of the iPhone 14 sold outside the
US retain the SIM tray. The main place where lack of eSIM support is
likely to be an issue---at least for the near future---is international
travel. Historically, it was easy to purchase a pre-paid SIM card for a
local carrier in the airport upon arriving, but that will no longer work
for a US iPhone 14. The iPhone is sufficiently popular that
international carriers are adding eSIM support, but it's still possible
to travel to a country where you can't get local service with an iPhone
14 due to the lack of a SIM tray. Apple maintains a list of
[international carriers that support
eSIM](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT209096) in various ways,
including with pre-paid plans for travelers, and offers advice on [how
to use eSIM when traveling](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213448).
(eSIM isn't available at all in mainland China, but Apple's list
includes worldwide service providers that sell pre-paid data plans you
can use when traveling in China and other countries without eSIM
support.)

Apple has been moving toward eSIM for several years, starting with the
iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max, and iPhone XR in 2018. Those iPhones---and
every model up to the iPhone 14---had both a SIM tray and eSIM, which
enabled the use of two separate cellular plans, each with its own phone
number. With the iPhone 13, Apple enabled [Dual SIM
support](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT209044) with eSIM alone, and
some carriers started giving customers the option to activate their
primary service with eSIM, leaving the SIM tray or the second eSIM
available for a second plan. Apple says you can store and switch among
up to eight or more eSIMs, two of which can be active at any time, but
it's unclear how that works---an update to iOS might be necessary.

[Cellular-capable iPads](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT203089) have
had eSIM support since the seventh-generation iPad, fifth-generation
iPad mini, third-generation iPad Air, first-generation 11-inch iPad Pro,
and third-generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro.

### How to Activate an eSIM

Precisely how you activate an account with eSIM varies by carrier and
your situation, but [Apple describes three basic
options](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212780):

-   **eSIM Carrier Activation:** Some carriers can assign a new eSIM to
    your iPhone, making it easy to switch to a new iPhone or enable an
    eSIM-based plan after setup. eSIM Carrier Activation involves
    following a few simple onscreen instructions where you basically
    acknowledge that activation is happening. Make sure you can place a
    phone call afterward, and if you're switching from a SIM card,
    remove it and restart your iPhone.

-   **eSIM Quick Transfer:** If you're transferring a SIM or eSIM from
    an old iPhone to a new one and you have both at hand, you may be
    able to use eSIM Quick Transfer. It will provide instructions during
    setup, or you can initiate it after setup with Settings > Cellular
    > Add Cellular Plan and either selecting a plan from a list or
    tapping Transfer From Another Device. You can also convert a
    physical SIM to an eSIM on the same phone if your carrier supports
    eSIM Quick Transfer; check to see if Settings > Cellular has a
    Convert to eSIM option. If so, tap it and follow the instructions.
    ![](./media/image2.jpeg){width="5.790075459317586in"
    height="5.6637609361329835in"}

-   **Scan a QR code or use a carrier app:** Carriers that don't support
    eSIM Carrier Activation or eSIM Quick Transfer initiate setup by
    providing either a QR code you can scan---during setup or
    afterward---or a custom app. Either way, follow the iPhone's
    instructions to complete the setup.

Although we've become accustomed to swapping SIM cards in and out of our
iPhones such that eSIM feels new and confusing, it should be a better
overall solution that's easier to set up, less error-prone, and more
secure. There may be some short-term annoyance for US iPhone 14 owners
who travel internationally, but we anticipate that will dissipate over
time as international carriers start supporting eSIM.