---
layout: post
date: '2022-09-09'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/use-your-iphone-to-identify-plants,-wildlife,-and-birds-with-seek-and-merlin/
published: true
title: Use Your iPhone to Identify Plants, Wildlife, and Birds with Seek and Merlin
description: Use Your iPhone to Identify Plants, Wildlife, and Birds with Seek and Merlin
blogimgpath: 20220905Us
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-iPhoneNature.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-iPhoneNature.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
Now and then, we run across iPhone apps that feel magical, and we want
to share two of them: Seek and Merlin. They both use machine learning to
help you identify something from the natural world using your iPhone. If
you're at all curious about the plants, wildlife, and birds you
encounter outside, you'll want to download these free apps.â€‹

### Seek from iNaturalist

You're out for a walk and see a particularly pretty flower or a tree
with an unusual leaf shape. In the past, you'd probably wonder what it
was and move on, or if you were really motivated to identify it, you
might take a photo and consult a master gardener or arborist.

Instead, download the [Seek](https://www.inaturalist.org/pages/seek_app)
app, created by the team behind
[iNaturalist](https://www.inaturalist.org/), a social network that
encourages members to share their photographs of living things to
document organisms in time and space. iNaturalist is a joint initiative
of the [California Academy of Sciences](https://www.calacademy.org/) and
the [National Geographic
Society](https://www.nationalgeographic.org/society/), and it maintains
a massive database of identified images of plants and wildlife.

To start using Seek, which doesn't require an account, tap the green
camera button on any screen. Then point the camera at something you want
to identify and watch as the ID meter at the top of the screen works its
way through the taxonomic ranks: kingdom, phylum, class, order, family,
genus, and species. Once Seek fills all seven dots---indicating that it
knows the species---you can tap the camera button again to take a photo
and add the organism to your observations. Seek then presents a page
with additional information about the organism.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Us/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Beyond plants, Seek can identify amphibians, fungi, fish, reptiles,
arachnids, birds, insects, mollusks, and mammals. It can be more
difficult to get a spider or rodent to hold still while you point the
camera at it, but you can also take a regular photo and have Seek
identify it instead---just tap Photos at the bottom of the camera screen
to select a photo from your library. If Seek recognizes the organism, it
lets you add it to your observations, but it often has more trouble
getting to the species level with a photo.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Us/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


If you're a parent, Seek's challenges and badges might make the app
especially fun to use with your child. A new challenge appears each
month and asks you to identify a set of species near your location. You
can also try past challenges, though you'll have the most luck with ones
from a similar season.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Us/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Merlin from Cornell University's Lab of Ornithology

Although Seek can identify birds using its camera, if you're intrigued
to learn more about birds in particular, check out the
[Merlin](https://merlin.allaboutbirds.org/) app, created by the Cornell
Lab of Ornithology. It can identify over 8500 species of birds using
images or 685 species by listening to bird songs. Since birds can be
difficult to see, much less photograph, Merlin's capability to identify
birds by listening to songs around you is hugely helpful.

To get started with Merlin, tap the Sound ID button on the main screen
and then tap the microphone button. The app starts recording, and as it
identifies bird songs nearby, it adds them to a list. It's likely that
you'll hear multiple birds, and as Merlin continues to hear their songs,
it highlights the species singing. After you tap the red stop button,
Merlin saves your recording. You can then compare Merlin's recordings
with the one you made, and if they match, tap a button to add the bird
to your list.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Us/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Merlin is also happy to identify a bird from a photo, which you can take
from within the app or pull out of your Photos library. (Tip: When
viewing your library from within Merlin, search for "bird" to find just
the photos you might want to identify.) After you use a two-finger
pinch-out gesture to zoom the photo to fit in the box, tap the Next
button and confirm the photo's location and date to see details about
the bird. Again, if it's right, tap the This Is My Bird button to add it
to your list.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220905Us/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Just as Seek connects to iNaturalist for additional online capabilities,
Merlin can connect to an online [eBird](https://ebird.org/home) account
where you can manage your sightings and more. There's also an [eBird
app](https://ebird.org/about/ebird-mobile/) that makes sightings public,
provides rankings, and incorporates sightings into cutting-edge research
projects.

Whether you're a parent looking for something to do with your child
outdoors, an environmentalist with an abiding interest in the natural
world, or just someone who would like to identify a pretty flower or
unusual visitor to your birdfeeder, Seek and Merlin are well worth
downloading. Both are easy to use and require no upfront commitment, but
be warned that you may find them surprisingly addictive!