---
layout: post
date: '2022-04-19'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/three-tricks-for-dealing-with-duplicated-contacts/
published: true
title: Three Tricks for Dealing with Duplicated Contacts
description: Three Tricks for Dealing with Duplicated Contacts
blogimgpath: 20220402Th
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-DuplicateContacts.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-DuplicateContacts.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
In today's world, there's no reason to remember our contacts' phone
numbers or email addresses---that's a job for our Macs, iPhones, and
iPads. This sort of data is so core to using digital devices that Apple
has long provided an ecosystem-wide solution in the form of Contacts and
syncing through iCloud.

Unfortunately, it's all too common to end up with multiple cards for the
same person in Contacts, either precise duplicates or versions that
contain different details. Further muddying the situation, many of us
have multiple contact accounts---such as from Google or Microsoft
Exchange---and some contacts may be duplicated across several accounts.

This situation is sufficiently common that Apple has provided three ways
to deal with duplicate contacts: manually merging selected contact
cards, automatically merging duplicate cards, and linking cards
replicated in multiple accounts. The first two can be done only in the
Contacts app on the Mac; linking can also be accomplished on an iPhone
or iPad.​

### Merge Contact Cards

Let's say you've ended up with two or more contact cards for the same
person in the same account. They'll usually have the same name, but it
doesn't matter if the names are different. To merge them, which combines
the data from each into a single card, select them in Contacts, and
choose Card > Merge Selected Cards. You should now see just the single
merged card.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220402Th/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Contacts generally does a good job of identifying data that's identical
between the cards (like the iPhone numbers above), though different
labels can sometimes trip it up. When there's a conflict, Contacts
creates a new entry for it. Name conflicts are added to the note field.​

### Look for Duplicates

Merge Selected Cards works if you have a small number of duplicates that
you can identify easily. However, many people have found themselves in
situations where tens or hundreds of contacts have been duplicated,
often due to a hiccup in cloud syncing or importing. To help with that
too-frequent occurrence, Apple added a feature that looks at all your
contact cards and merges those that it determines are duplicates.

It's simple to use---just choose Card > Look for Duplicates. After
Contacts scans all your cards, it puts up a dialog telling you how many
cards it found. Click Merge to combine all the duplicates.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220402Th/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Although merging hundreds of cards can be stressful, it usually works
very well, and it's far faster and easier than the alternative, which is
to select each set of duplicates manually and use Merge Selected Cards.​

### Link Contact Cards

The two previous solutions help when you have duplicate contacts in a
single account. Equally annoying can be ending up with contact cards for
the same person across multiple accounts. (Check to see what accounts
are configured and enabled in Contacts > Preferences > Accounts.) At
best, those duplicates will simply clutter your contact list; at worst,
you might have to check multiple cards to find the right phone number or
email address.

Apple helps you clean up your contact list by linking cards for the same
contact across different accounts. (You mustn't link cards for different
people; that can result in people receiving texts meant for others and
other confusions.) In essence, this works like Merge Selected Cards, but
the separate contact cards remain in their accounts, with Contacts
displaying just one card with the combined information.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220402Th/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


You can also link contacts using the Contacts or Phone apps on an iPhone
or iPad, although the steps are much fussier than in Contacts on the
Mac:

1.  Find a person who is replicated across multiple accounts, and view
    one of their contact cards.

2.  Tap Edit, scroll to the Linked Contacts section at the bottom of the
    card and tap the green + button.

3.  In the contact list that appears, find and tap the second card for
    the person---it should either be showing or require scrolling up
    slightly.

4.  Tap Link, and in the next screen, tap Done.

If you accidentally link the wrong cards and need to unlink them, edit
the linked card and click or tap the red Remove button to break the
link.

Changes you make to a combined card are saved to each separate card.
However, if you want to edit one of the cards but not the other, you can
view and edit each one separately by clicking the account name next to
Cards on the Mac or tapping the appropriate card under Linked Contacts
on an iPhone or iPad.

Cleaning up your contact list may not be the most exciting thing to do,
but it's worthwhile to eliminate duplicates that could cause confusion
later on.