---
layout: post
date: '2022-10-17'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/new-messages-features-in-ios-16-mark-as-unread-edit-messages-undo-send-report-junk-and-more/
published: true
title: "New Messages Features in iOS 16: Mark as Unread, Edit Messages, Undo Send, Report Junk, and More"
description: "New Messages Features in iOS 16: Mark as Unread, Edit Messages, Undo Send, Report Junk, and More"
blogimgpath: 20221005Ne
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-MessagesFeatures.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-MessagesFeatures.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
After years of user requests, Apple has finally beefed up Messages with
a few welcome features---options to mark conversations as unread for
later reference, edit messages after they've been sent, and undo sending
entirely. Plus, when you delete junk texts in Messages, you can now
report them to Apple and your carrier, and you can find inadvertently
deleted conversations in Recently Deleted. Finally, there's a Tapback
improvement for SMS messages to Android users.

Before we begin, beware that editing messages and Undo Send work the way
you expect *only* if your recipient is also using iMessage (blue bubble
friends) with iOS 16 (or iPadOS 16 or macOS 13 Ventura, once those come
out later in 2022). Instead of an edited message, a device running any
other operating system will display a second message with the edited
text. An unsent message can't be called back from a recipient not
running iOS 16---it will remain in the conversation with no indication
that you tried to unsend it.â€‹

### Mark as Unread

There are two types of people in the world: those who use red icon
badges as reminders and those who ignore them entirely. The same applies
to the blue dots that appear next to conversations in Messages to
indicate unread posts. If an icon badge or blue dot is your nudge to do
something, you'll like Messages' new capability to mark messages as
unread. That way, if you receive a message while you're busy, you can
pretend that you haven't read it so the red icon badge and blue dot
remind you to deal with the message later.

Note that Mark as Unread works at the conversation level, not the
message level. To mark a conversation as unread after looking at it,
return to the message list and swipe all the way right on the
conversation. For a pinned conversation, press and hold the conversation
and tap Mark as Unread.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Edit Messages

We've all been the victims of auto-correct or dictation errors that
render a message embarrassing, confusing, or inexplicable. With Messages
in iOS 16, you can fix such errors within 15 minutes after sending, and
if necessary, you can do it up to five times.

To edit a message during that 15-minute window, press and hold the
message, then tap Edit. Your message opens for editing. Make your
changes and then tap the blue checkmark; if you change your mind, tap
the gray X.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


It's important to note, however, that the recipient could have seen the
message before you edited it, and even if they didn't, such messages are
marked with Edited in the conversation. If they tap Edited, they can see
previous versions of the message. In other words, you can fix mistakes,
but you can't pretend they never happened.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Undo Send

Have you ever sent something in Messages that you wanted to call back?
We've certainly sent the right message to the wrong person and
inadvertently sent gibberish with errant taps on the keyboard. With iOS
16, if you realize you've made such a mistake within 2 minutes, you can
undo sending, which deletes the message from the recipient's iPhone,
replacing it with a message saying that you unsent it. However, if the
recipient isn't using an iPhone or has any Apple device logged into
iMessage that's not running iOS 16, iPadOS 16, or macOS 13 Ventura, the
message will *not* be deleted on that device, with no indication that
you tried to recall it.

To unsend a message within that 2-minute window, press and hold the
message, then tap Undo Send. It disappears instantly, and you see a
warning about it working only with compatible devices.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Meanwhile, even if the recipient is running iOS 16, they still could
have read the message before you unsent it, and if they didn't see it,
they would still see a message saying that you unsent it. In short, you
still need to think before you send!

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Report Junk

There's no way to know how effective reporting junk messages is in
preventing future spam from that person or phone number, but it feels
good. (We like to imagine an Apple satellite's space laser vaporizing
the offender's phone.) If you get a junk text, either via iMessage (blue
bubble) or SMS/MMS (green bubble), swipe all the way left on it. Then
tap Delete in the prompt that appears, and Report Junk in the next one.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image7.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Recently Deleted

What if you inadvertently delete the wrong conversation or message? You
can now access those for up to 30 days in Recently Deleted. Tap Edit in
the upper-left corner, tap Show Recently Deleted, select the messages to
restore, and tap Recover in the lower-right corner.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image8.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### SMS Tapbacks on Android

Finally, Apple has tweaked Messages so you can use the Tapback feature
(press and hold a message, and then tap one of the response icons above
it) to send a corresponding emoji to messages sent by Android users with
SMS. This small change helps to provide a consistent experience for both
iPhone and Android users.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Ne/image9.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Although it's too bad that message editing and Undo Send work only with
other iOS 16 users, there's no avoiding the need for support at both the
system level (which eliminates SMS messages sent to non-iPhone users)
and the app level (which eliminates older versions of Messages).
Nevertheless, they and the other new Messages features are useful now
and will become all the more so as more iPhone, iPad, and Mac users
upgrade.
