---
layout: post
date: '2022-01-25'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/plan-for-the-future-by-establishing-a-legacy-contact/
published: true
title: Plan for the Future by Establishing a Legacy Contact
description: Plan for the Future by Establishing a Legacy Contact
blogimgpath: 20220103Pl
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Legacy.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-Legacy.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
Have you heard the expression "hit by a bus"? It's a somewhat macabre
attempt to inject a little levity into planning for the unthinkable
event of dying without warning. No one expects to be hit by a bus, but
people do die unexpectedly in all sorts of ways. That's terrible, of
course, but it's also incredibly hard on that person's family, who
suddenly must deal with an overwhelming number of details. Many of those
details revolve around the deceased's digital life---devices, accounts,
passwords, subscriptions, and more.

We strongly encourage everyone, regardless of age or infirmity, to think
about what your family would want and need to do with your digital
presence in the event of your death. The ultimate guide to this topic is
Joe Kissell's book [*Take Control of Your Digital
Legacy*](https://www.takecontrolbooks.com/digital-legacy/?pt=TCN),
although the current version is a little out of date and is slated for
updating in 2022.

The next edition of that book will undoubtedly discuss Apple's new
Legacy Contact feature, introduced in iOS 15.2, iPadOS 15.2, and macOS
12.1 Monterey. It enables you to specify one or more people as a Legacy
Contact. Should you die unexpectedly, those people can use an access key
along with your death certificate to access much of your Apple content
and remove Activation Lock from your devices. (If you have time to
prepare for your passing, it's easier to share all your passwords and
passcodes explicitly.) The person or people you set as Legacy Contacts
don't have to be running Apple's latest operating systems or even be
Apple users, though it's easier if they are. (Like so many other things
in life.)

Don't put off specifying someone as a Legacy Contact, whether it's a
family member or close friend. The entire point of the "hit by a bus"
scenario is that it's both unexpected and could happen at any time.
(It's possible to [get access without being a Legacy
Contact](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208510), but it requires a
court order and will undoubtedly be significantly more work.)

Apple provides good directions for the Legacy Contact feature, and while
we'll summarize the steps below, read Apple's documentation to get the
word from the horse's mouth. Apple's support pages include:

-   [Data that a Legacy Contact can
    access](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212362)

-   [How to add a Legacy Contact for your Apple
    ID](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212360)

-   [Request access to an Apple account as a Legacy
    Contact](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212361)​

### What Data Can a Legacy Contact Access?

Apple has the full list at the link above, but in short, a Legacy
Contact can access anything stored in iCloud, including photos, email,
contacts, calendars, messages, files, and more, as well as the contents
of iCloud Backup. Not included are licensed media (music, movies, and
books), in-app purchases (upgrades, subscriptions, and game currency),
payment information (Apple ID payment info or Apple Pay cards), and
anything stored in the account holder's keychain (usernames and
passwords, credit card details, and more). A Legacy Contact cannot
access the deceased's devices---Apple is incapable of sharing passcodes.
However, Apple can remove Activation Lock so those devices can be erased
and reused.​

### How Do You Add a Legacy Contact?

Adding someone as a Legacy Contact is easy. You must be running iOS
15.2, iPadOS 15.2, or macOS 12.1 Monterey to initiate the process, and
[two-factor authentication must be turned on for your Apple
ID](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204915) (this is a very good idea
anyway).

On an iPhone or iPad, go to Settings > *Your Name* > Password &
Security > Legacy Contact > Add Legacy Contact. On a Mac, use System
Preferences > Apple ID > Password & Security > Legacy Contact >
Manage. You can choose a group member if you're in a Family Sharing
group or pick someone from your contacts list.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220103Pl/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


As part of the process of picking someone, Apple allows you to share the
access key via Messages if they're running iOS 15.2, iPadOS 15.2, or
macOS 12.1 Monterey. If they accept, a copy of the access key will
automatically be stored in their Apple ID settings. If they're not
running a necessary operating system or don't use an Apple device, you
can instead print out an access key QR code and give that to them. You
might also want to print a copy to store with your will and other
important documents.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220103Pl/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

It may often be appropriate to act as a Legacy Contact for the people
you're asking to be your Legacy Contacts, particularly with spouses or
adult children.​

### How Does a Legacy Contact Request Account Access?

Let's assume the worst and pretend ​​that someone who has added you as a
Legacy Contact has passed away. To request access to their Apple ID, you
need the access key that the person shared with you and a copy of their
death certificate. You can find the access key on an iPhone or iPad in
Settings > *Your Name* > Password & Security > Legacy Contact >
*Contact's Name*, and on the Mac in System Preferences > Apple ID >
Password & Security, where you click Manage next to Legacy Contact
settings and then Details next to the person's name. It's also possible
that the person shared the access key as a document stored with their
estate planning documents.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220103Pl/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

The screens that provide the access key also have a Request Access link.
Tap or click that and follow the instructions to upload the death
certificate. If you don't have an appropriate Apple device, you can also
do this on the Web at Apple's [Digital Legacy - Request
Access](https://digital-legacy.apple.com/) page.

Apple evaluates all access requests to make sure they're legitimate, and
once approved, sends you an email with more details and instructions.
That email will also include a special Legacy Contact Apple ID that
replaces the deceased's previous Apple ID. You can use that Apple ID to
log in to [iCloud.com](https://www.icloud.com/) or download data at
[privacy.apple.com](https://privacy.apple.com/), sign in to an Apple
device, or restore an iCloud backup to another Apple device. Having an
access request approved also removes Activation Lock from the deceased's
Apple devices so you can [restore them to factory
settings](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201263) and set them up
again, either fresh or with the Legacy Contact's Apple ID's data.

The main limitation is that the Legacy Contact Apple ID is good only for
3 years, after which the legacy account is permanently deleted. So be
sure to download everything important fairly quickly---don't just keep
using the Legacy Contact Apple ID or assume that you'll be able to go
back to it at any time.

We sincerely hope that you never have to act as Legacy Contact for a
loved one, but we can say from experience that this new feature can only
help make an already stressful time more manageable.