---
layout: post
date: '2022-08-09'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/choosing-the-best-mac-for-a-college-bound-student-in-2022/
published: true
title: Choosing the Best Mac for a College-Bound Student in 2022
description: Choosing the Best Mac for a College-Bound Student in 2022
blogimgpath: 20220809Ch
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CollegeMac.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CollegeMac.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Do you have a child starting college soon? It's likely that your kid has
been relying heavily on a computer throughout high school, but if it was
a school-provided laptop or shared family computer, now's the time to
get them something of their own. And even if they had their own laptop
throughout high school, if it's old or unreliable, college is a good
excuse to bring them up to date. If you haven't been paying close
attention to Apple's Mac lineup, you might wonder which model makes the
most sense.

First, don't buy anything without first checking with the college. Many
college departments have specific requirements based on the software
students use in their classes. Generally, these revolve around processor
type, amount of RAM, and storage space. Luckily, current Macs should
meet the requirements. Second, see if the college provides access to
education pricing---most will---to save a few hundred dollars.

Colleges often specify---and students usually prefer---laptops instead
of desktop machines. Although the 24-inch iMac is an excellent machine
with a gorgeous screen, it's too big and unwieldy for the transient
lifestyle of the typical college student. The same applies to a Mac mini
or Mac Studio with an external display. A laptop is much easier to pack
during moves, and it can travel to class every day. A student who's
accustomed to taking notes on an iPad with a Smart Keyboard and Apple
Pencil might be able to use that along with a desktop Mac, but most
students should focus on Apple's laptops.

In the past, it was harder to decide which model was best for a given
student, but with Apple's move to the M1 and M2 chips, which
significantly outperform the Intel processors used in previous models,
the decision is easier. We see three primary scenarios:

-   **Most students:** Buy Apple's [MacBook
    Air](https://www.apple.com/macbook-air/). It's Apple's smallest,
    lightest, and least expensive laptop, but thanks to its M1 or M2
    processor, it has fabulous performance for everyday tasks. Although
    the M1 MacBook Air from 2020 remains available for those who need
    the most cost-effective option (starting at $999), the new M2
    MacBook Air is a better choice for most people, thanks to its
    bigger-brighter-better 13.6-inch screen, faster performance, 24 GB
    memory ceiling, and higher-resolution webcam. It starts at $1199.

-   **Better specs:** If performance is more important than
    cost---particularly if your student will be working with
    processor-intensive tasks like video editing---look to the [14-inch
    MacBook Pro](https://www.apple.com/macbook-pro-14-and-16/). It
    features an M1 Pro chip that's more powerful than the base-level M2
    and is configurable with an even faster M1 Max chip. Its screen is
    bigger, and it can take up to 32 GB of memory. Its price starts at
    $1999.

-   **Windows compatibility:** The only downside of the transition to
    Apple silicon is that it's no longer easy to run Windows using
    virtualization software like VMware Fusion (free for students) or
    Parallels Desktop. On M1 and M2 Macs, it is possible to run
    [Parallels Desktop and Windows for ARM Insider
    Preview](https://kb.parallels.com/en/125375), but we can't recommend
    that anyone rely on that combination yet. If Windows compatibility
    is paramount, your choices are a used Intel-based MacBook Pro
    or---much as we hate to say it---a PC laptop that runs Windows
    natively.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220809Ch/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Regardless of which laptop you decide on, you'll have to pick a
processor, an amount of RAM, and storage capacity:

-   **Processor:** With the M1 MacBook Air, you're limited to the M1
    chip with an 8-core CPU and 7-core GPU, so there is no choice to
    make. However, with the M2 MacBook Air, the M2 chip always has an
    8-core CPU, but you can pay $100 to upgrade from an 8-core GPU to a
    10-core GPU. The performance difference isn't likely to be
    noticeable with everyday apps, but for $100, it might be worth it,
    just in case. The 14-inch MacBook Pro has three M1 Pro options and
    two more M1 Max options, and choosing among them is probably best
    done by weighing likely performance needs against the increased
    cost.


-   **Memory:** The M1 MacBook Air offers the choice of 8 GB or 16 GB. 8
    GB is acceptable for most college students, but we'd encourage 16 GB
    to reduce the chance that memory becomes a limiting factor in
    performance. The M2 MacBook Air lets you choose from 8 GB, 16 GB, or
    24 GB, and again, we'd default to 16 GB unless there's some
    particularly memory-hungry software in play. With the 14-inch
    MacBook Pro, 16 GB is standard and fine for most tasks, but 32 GB is
    available if you think it will be necessary, and for seriously
    intensive work, the M1 Max chip in the 14-inch MacBook Pro offers a
    64 GB option.


-   **Storage:** For both MacBook Air models, 256 GB is the lowest
    storage level, and you can upgrade to 2 TB. The 14-inch MacBook Pro
    starts at 512 GB and offers upgrades up to a whopping 8 TB. Choose
    the amount of storage based on budget---it gets expensive fast---and
    anticipated usage---audio and especially video can consume a lot of
    space, as can large numbers of photos, but most other uses don't.
    Remember that it's easy to connect an external Thunderbolt SSD or
    hard drive to offload large files that don't have to be kept
    available at all times.

To our thinking, the most obvious choice for a Mac that's likely to last
for four years of college would be the new M2 MacBook Air with a 10-core
GPU, 16 GB of memory, and 512 GB of storage. Be sure to budget for
[AppleCare+](https://www.apple.com/support/products/mac/), too; it's
almost guaranteed that some mishap will befall a student laptop, and
AppleCare+ covers up to two incidents of accidental damage every year.

You'll need to have some conversations with your child to find out what
they think they'll need---and be sure to double-check that against the
college's recommendations---but if you have any questions after that,
don't hesitate to contact us.