---
layout: post
date: '2022-02-24'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/the-hidden-controls-in-the-iphone-s-camera-app/
published: true
title: "The Hidden Controls in the iPhone's Camera App"
description: "The Hidden Controls in the iPhone's Camera App"
blogimgpath: 20220201Th
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CameraControls.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-CameraControls.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
The beauty of the iPhone camera is that it combines the ease of use of a
point-and-shoot camera with the image quality of a DSLR. To take a
picture, you simply open the Camera app, frame your shot, and tap the
shutter button. Simple, but what's happening behind the scenes is
anything but. The iPhone captures multiple images at once, concentrating
on variables such as exposure, focus, tone, highlights, shadows, and
more. It then merges all that data to produce what it thinks is the best
possible image. Impressively, all this computational photography happens
in real-time with no perceptible delay. (That said, iOS 15 provides a
Prioritize Faster Shooting option in Settings > Camera that
adapts---and presumably reduces---the image quality when you rapidly
press the shutter multiple times.)

Despite all this automation, Apple still provides numerous manual
controls you can employ to take photos the way you want. These controls
are hidden, though, so you're excused if you haven't noticed them or
have been frustrated looking for them. ("Where is that dratted Timer
button? It must be here somewhere!")

First, you have to reveal the controls, which is easy, although you'd
never guess how. When you're in the Camera app, swipe up anywhere on the
screen above the shutter button. If you swipe up on the horizontal row
of camera mode labels, your swipe can be quite short. However, if you
swipe up on the viewfinder image, the Camera app might interpret a short
swipe as a tap-and-swipe and display the in-image exposure control
instead. On the viewfinder, use a longer, more emphatic swipe ➊. Either
way, the camera controls replace the camera modes underneath the
viewfinder ➋.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Once you have the controls showing, tap a button to access its options,
use a slider or button to adjust the settings ➌, tap the original button
to hide the options, and swipe down in the same way you swiped up to
hide all the controls. The really confusing bit is that not all the
controls may fit on the screen, so if you're looking for the Timer or
Filter buttons on an iPhone 13 Pro, for instance, you may have to swipe
left on the controls to bring those buttons into view.

Here's the full set---note that all except Depth (the rightmost one
below) are in Photo mode; some may also appear in other modes. (Not all
controls appear on all iPhone models, and the Low Light button, for
instance, shows up only in low-light situations.)

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Now, let's look at what the controls make possible:

-   **Flash:** Use the Flash control to allow the camera to use the
    flash as needed or force it to be on or off. You can also control
    the flash in Video and Slo-Mo modes.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Low Light:** Night mode on some of Apple's high-end iPhones makes
    it possible to take better pictures in very low-light situations.
    With this control, you can set a specific amount of time for Night
    mode's exposure. The longer the exposure, the lighter the photo, but
    the more small movements will cause blur and graininess.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
    
-   **Live Photo:** Live Photo records 1.5 seconds of video before and
    after you take a photo, animating the photo slightly. Use this
    control to set whether the camera takes Live Photos all the time,
    none of the time, or automatically when it thinks it's warranted
    (which is a lot).
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image6.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
    
-   **Photographic Styles:** These custom settings---Rich Contrast,
    Vibrant, Warm, and Cool---let you apply that distinct look to all
    your photos automatically. Or stick with Standard and apply the look
    you want afterward by editing.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image7.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
    
-   **Aspect Ratio:** Some iPhones can take photos in multiple aspect
    ratios. Use this control to choose from the standard 4:3 (below
    left) ratio, square, and 16:9 (below right). The 16:9 ratio expands
    the viewfinder to show what it will capture.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image8.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
    
-   **Exposure:** Although automatic exposure control is usually fine
    (and you can adjust it afterward as well), you can use this control
    to increase or decrease the exposure manually. It's also available
    in Video, Slo-Mo, and Time-Lapse modes.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image9.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
    
-   **Timer:** For a hands-free selfie or a group photo that includes
    the photographer, use this control to set the timer to 3 or 10
    seconds, starting from when you tap the shutter button. The iPhone
    counts down with both flash bursts and an onscreen number.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image10.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
    
-   **Filter:** The Filter button offers nine options, three each in
    Vivid, Dramatic, and Mono. You may want to turn one of these on to
    see its effect while composing the shot. Otherwise, it's easier to
    apply them in editing later.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image11.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />
    
-   **Depth:** This control is available only in the Portrait and
    Cinematic modes, where it lets you increase or decrease the depth of
    field. If you increase the depth of field, the background becomes
    sharper; if you decrease it, the background gets blurrier.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220201Th/image12.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Apart from Photographic Styles, which automatically remembers your
setting from session to session, the Camera app generally resets any
changes you make in the next session. That's usually what you'd want,
but if you would prefer to keep a setting until you change it manually,
go to Settings > Camera > Preserve Settings. That screen provides
switches that tell the Camera app to preserve specific settings. Pay
particular attention to Creative Controls, Exposure Adjustment, Night
Mode, and Live Photo---we often make a point of using Preserve Settings
with Live Photo so we don't waste a lot of space unless we actually want
to shoot a Live Photo.

In the end, it's nice that these controls are neither necessary nor
cluttering your view most of the time, but they're extremely useful on
occasion. We hope that Apple comes up with a way of hinting at their
existence in future versions of iOS.