---
layout: post
date: '2022-09-10'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/apple-event-four-iphones-three-apple-watches-and-new-airpods-pro/
published: true
title: "Apple Event - Four iPhones, Three Apple Watches, and New AirPods Pro"
description: "Apple Event - Four iPhones, Three Apple Watches, and New AirPods Pro"
blogimgpath: 20220910Ap
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-FarOut.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-FarOut.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
Apple's September crop has ripened, and the company has once again
picked a basket of new and updated hardware for us. At its [Far
Out](https://www.apple.com/apple-events/) event on
September 7th, Apple unveiled four iPhone 14 models, three new or
updated Apple Watch models, and the second-generation AirPods Pro.

After the announcement, Apple said that iOS 16 and watchOS 9 would
become available on September 12th, with iPadOS 16.1 and macOS 13
Ventura to arrive in October. As we've said before, wait a week or two
before installing iOS 16 and watchOS 9 on essential devices to avoid any
last-minute bugs. Regardless of when you upgrade, make a backup right
before, in case something goes wrong and you need to erase and restore.

Let's look at each of the new products.

### iPhone 14 Models Show Both Evolution and Innovation

With the new iPhones, Apple made a clean split between the regular and
Pro models. On the lower end, Apple has the 6.1-inch iPhone 14 and the
6.7-inch iPhone 14 Plus---there is no iPhone 14 mini. On the high end,
Apple pulled out all the stops for the iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro
Max, again in those 6.1-inch and 6.7-inch sizes. Design-wise, the models
are extremely similar to the iPhone 13, with squared-off sides and only
very slight size changes.

For the most part, the [iPhone 14 and iPhone 14
Plus](https://www.apple.com/iphone-14/) aren't meant to be
technologically exciting, relying on the same A15 Bionic chip as last
year's iPhone 13 models. As it usually does, Apple put more attention
into the cameras, switching to a new rear-facing 12-megapixel main
camera with a larger aperture for better low-light performance and a new
front-facing TrueDepth camera that boasts autofocus for the first time.
Apple also introduced a new Photonic Engine that leverages hardware and
software to improve mid- and low-light performance for all its cameras.
On the video side, a new Action mode provides advanced stabilization for
smoother action videos, and Cinematic mode now supports 4K video at 24
fps and 30 fps.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


More innovative---and present in both the regular and Pro models---are a
pair of technologies we sincerely hope you never have to use. Crash
detection relies on a variety of sensors in the iPhone to detect the
changes in acceleration, air pressure, and sound that accompany car
crashes. In the event of a crash, the iPhone's Emergency SOS feature
offers to call emergency services and notify your emergency contacts.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image3.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Even more technologically impressive is [Emergency SOS via
satellite](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213426), which
enables very low bandwidth text message communication with emergency
services using satellites when there's no cellular coverage. The feature
will help you point your iPhone at fast-moving satellites overhead, and
it asks vital questions to distill key facts for emergency responders
because even short messages may take over a minute to get through. More
commonly, you'll be able to manually share your location via satellite
using Apple's Find My system when you're without cellular or Wi-Fi
connectivity. All this is coming in November 2022 and will be available
only in the US and Canada at first.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image4.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Apple's final change to both the regular and Pro models---at least in
the US---is a switch to eSIM. None of the iPhone 14 models sold in the
US will have SIM slots. Most carriers support eSIM at this point, and
when traveling to other countries, US iPhone 14 users will need to find
roaming plans that support eSIM instead of buying and installing a local
SIM card.

The [iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro
Max](https://www.apple.com/iphone-14-pro/) boast more
exciting changes. The most obvious change is the switch to an Always-On
display, much like recent models of the Apple Watch. You'll be able to
view the new Lock screen imagery and widgets at all times without even
touching your iPhone. Thanks to a 1 Hz display refresh rate and
intelligent dimming of wallpaper, it won't hurt battery life. And when
you're actively using the iPhone 14 Pro, the screen will be brighter
than ever for easier reading in direct sunlight.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image5.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Apple also shrunk the Face ID and TrueDepth camera sensor package that
occupies a notch on the regular iPhone 14 models and older iPhones. On
the iPhone 14 Pro, it's now a small black lozenge at the top of the
screen that can't display anything but is integrated into a new feature
called the Dynamic Island. Alerts and notifications, and a new dynamic
notification type called Live Activities, appear to zoom out of and back
into the black lozenge, and Live Activities appear on either side. It's
a clever design trick to make you think that portion of the screen is
being used.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image6.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The Dynamic Island and Always-On display are made possible in part by
Apple's new A16 Bionic chip, which offers more performance and better
efficiency than any other smartphone processor. The A16 Bionic handles
the most demanding workflows and graphics-intensive games, and it also
powers the iPhone 14 Pro's computational photography features,
performing up to 4 trillion operations per photo.

On that topic, the iPhone 14 Pro introduces even more powerful cameras.
The main rear-facing camera is now a 48-megapixel camera with a
quad-pixel sensor that combines four pixels into one for most photos,
improving low-light capture and reducing file size to the equivalent of
a 12-megapixel camera. However, the iPhone 14 Pro can also shoot ProRAW
photos with the full 48 megapixels to capture unprecedented detail for
later processing. The quad-pixel sensor also enables a 2x optical zoom
in addition to the improved telephoto camera's 3x optical zoom. The new
12-megapixel ultra wide camera provides sharper macro shots, and the new
front-facing TrueDepth camera offers better low-light performance and
autofocus for improved selfies. Apple also enhanced the Adaptive True
Tone flash to change its pattern based on the focal length, distributing
the light where it's most needed. Finally, the iPhone 14 Pro gains the
same Action mode and Cinematic mode video improvements found in the
other iPhone 14 models.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


All four iPhone 14 models start at 128 GB of storage, and the Pro models
offer a 1 TB tier for those shooting a lot of ProRAW photos or video.
Here are the 128 GB prices---add $100 for 256 GB, $300 for 512 GB, and
$500 for 1 TB:

-   **iPhone 14:** $799

-   **iPhone 14 Plus:** $899

-   **iPhone 14 Pro:** $999

-   **iPhone 14 Pro Max:** $1099

You can pre-order starting at 5 AM PDT on September 9th, with delivery
and in-store availability on September 16th, except for the iPhone 14
Plus, which ships on October 7th. The iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus come
in five colors: midnight, blue, starlight, purple, and (PRODUCT)RED. The
iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max come in deep purple, silver, gold,
and space black. The third-generation iPhone SE ($429), iPhone 12
($599), iPhone 13 mini ($599), and iPhone 13 ($699) remain for sale
as well.

Generally speaking, we wouldn't recommend upgrading from an iPhone 13
that's serving you well unless you're switching to the iPhone 14 Plus to
get a larger form factor or to one of the Pro models for the ultimate in
camera capabilities. It's easier to recommend an upgrade from an iPhone
12 model or earlier, given the improved camera capabilities.

### Apple Watch Line Expands with Apple Watch Ultra

This year, Apple introduced not just one new Apple Watch, but three! The
second-generation Apple Watch SE provides a better entry-level option,
the Apple Watch Series 8 takes over as the flagship model, and the Apple
Watch Ultra brings new capabilities to extreme athletes, adventurers,
and the rest of ​​us wannabes.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image8.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The second-generation [Apple Watch
SE](https://www.apple.com/apple-watch-se/) doesn't change
much from the first-generation model. It has a 30% larger screen in the
same 40mm and 45mm case sizes, it boasts the same S8 chip that powers
this year's Apple Watch Series 8, and it has new motion sensors that
enable it to detect car crashes, just like the iPhone 14. But it still
lacks the more-capable models' Always-On display, blood oxygen sensor,
ECG capability, and fast charging. It costs $249 for a GPS-only model
or $299 for the GPS+Cellular model. The case is aluminum, and you can
choose from midnight, starlight, and silver colors. You can order now
for delivery on September 16th.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image9.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


The [Apple Watch Series
8](https://www.apple.com/apple-watch-series-8/) doesn't
change physically from the Series 7, but it gains a temperature sensor
that Apple leverages for cycle tracking capabilities. We're hoping Apple
can get FDA approval to use the temperature sensor for other
health-related options in the future---wouldn't it be great if your
Apple Watch could warn you that you might be getting sick? The Series 8
also gets the new motion sensors to detect car crashes, and travelers
will be able to add a cellular Series 8 to an iPhone's international
roaming plan---likely for an additional fee---if the carrier in question
supports it. The aluminum case comes in four colors---midnight,
starlight, silver, and Product(RED)---and starts at $399 for GPS-only
and $499 for GPS+Cellular. The stainless steel case comes in silver,
gold, and graphite and starts at $699. Again, order now for delivery on
September 16th.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image10.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Most interesting is the new [Apple Watch
Ultra](https://www.apple.com/apple-watch-ultra/). It's a
completely new design with a 49mm titanium case and a flat sapphire
front crystal embedded in the case to protect against side impacts. At
14.4 millimeters, it's thicker than the other two models, which are only
10.7 millimeters, so it may look ungainly on people with smaller wrists.
It features a new Action button that apps can use for their own
purposes, along with a larger Digital Crown and side button to make it
easier to control with gloves. The Always-On screen is brighter than
ever, making it readable in direct sunlight. The larger size also gives
it better battery life, with 36 hours in normal usage and up to 60 hours
with an extended battery optimization mode Apple says is still coming.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image11.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Apple beefed up other specs in the Apple Watch Ultra as well. A new
dual-frequency GPS works better in conditions that can block GPS
signals. It includes dual speakers and a three-mic array for better
audio output and input, even in windy conditions. If you need help being
found in the wilderness, it boasts an 86-decibel siren that can be heard
up to 180 meters away. It's IP6X dust resistant and meets the US
military standard [MIL-STD
810H](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIL-STD-810) for
environmental conditions. You can even take it diving down to 100
meters, and with the Oceanic+ app coming in a few months, the Apple
Watch Ultra can act as a full [dive
computer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dive_computer).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image12.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


On the software side, the Apple Watch Ultra includes a new Wayfinder
watch face that displays a compass and has a Night mode that switches to
red on black for easier reading in the dark. A redesigned Compass app
provides multiple views, a backtrack capability to retrace your steps,
and waypoints for easier navigation.

The Apple Watch Ultra offers a choice of three bands: Alpine (nylon with
a G-hook clasp), Ocean (a stretch elastomer with extensions to fit over
wetsuits), and Trail (a nylon sport loop with a tab for easier
adjusting). You can order now for $799, and it will ship on September
23rd.

### Second-Generation AirPods Pro Improves on Previous Generation

Finally, Apple announced the second-generation AirPods Pro. Both the
earbuds and the charging case look essentially the same, with the main
subtle external change being that you can now adjust the volume with
light swipes up and down on the stems of the AirPods Pro. A new extra
small ear tip should make the AirPods Pro fit more people's ears.

Instead, Apple focused its efforts on the internals of the AirPods Pro.
A new H2 chip, coupled with a new low-distortion driver and custom
amplifier, promises a better audio experience. The H2 chip also improves
the Active Noise Cancellation feature, cutting out up to twice as much
ambient noise, and the new Adaptive Transparency mode lets you hear
what's happening around you while simultaneously reducing noise from
harsh sounds in the environment. When used with iOS 16, you'll also be
able to use Personalize Spatial Audio to customize what you hear based
on the size and shape of your head and ears.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220910Ap/image13.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Perhaps most welcome is the additional 1.5 hours of listening time with
Active Noise Cancellation that the new AirPods Pro offer. The charging
case provides four additional charges for a combined total of 30 hours
of listening time, 6 hours more than the previous model. You can now
charge the case from an Apple Watch charger, a MagSafe charger, a Qi
charger, or a regular Lightning cable. The new case is sweat- and
water-resistant, includes a lanyard loop, and can be found when lost
more easily thanks to a built-in speaker and support for Precision
Finding in the Find My app when used with a compatible iPhone.

Pricing for the second-generation AirPods Pro remains the same at $249.
You can order starting September 9th, and they'll arrive starting
September 23rd.
