---
layout: post
date: '2022-11-09'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/the-best-apple-gifts-for-this-holiday-season/
published: true
title: The Best Apple Gifts for this Holiday Season
description: The Best Apple Gifts for this Holiday Season
blogimgpath: 20221107Th
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-GiftIdeas.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-GiftIdeas.jpg
cta: 1
comments: true
---
It may seem early to think about holiday shopping, but even as the
global supply chain recovers from pandemic-related slowdowns, ship dates
remain unpredictable. If you want to make sure you have an Apple
something for that special someone, we recommend buying it soon. Here
are our recommendations

### AirTag

Do you know someone who's always misplacing their keys, purse, or
backpack, or who's planning a big trip? They might appreciate Apple's
[AirTag](https://www.apple.com/airtag/) tracker this holiday season.
Attach one to a keyring (with a separate $29 [AirTag
Loop](https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MLYY3ZM/A/airtag-loop-pink-citrus),
$35 [AirTag Leather Key
Ring](https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MMFA3ZM/A/airtag-leather-key-ring-golden-brown?fnode=3a28f329b154899fadf7a8b61d2652e69ed5654de72de574e8e893674b43a8ae73062833207747d0e56f7dadc269aeb1105c8eae25821e14ee33984c9b5b9f13effd4e7f8772c223d59cf906c441125d1d4ea918ca818f1125d1fe32c4bb97ce),
or $39 [AirTag Leather
Loop](https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MM043ZM/A/airtag-leather-loop-baltic-blue))
or drop it in a bag, and from then on, they can use the iPhone's Find My
app to see where they left their stuff. AirTag uses the Find My network,
so even if the item is far away, passing Apple devices that detect it
can securely share its location with you. That makes it especially
helpful for tracking down checked luggage that hasn't arrived at its
proper destination. One AirTag costs $29, or you can get a pack of four
for $99. You can even have Apple personalize each AirTag with custom
text and emoji.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221107Th/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### AirPods and AirPods Pro

Apple's wireless earbuds keep getting better. In September, the company
released the [second-generation AirPods
Pro](https://www.apple.com/airpods-pro/), replacing the original model
and supplementing the [second-generation
AirPods](https://www.apple.com/airpods-2nd-generation/) and
[third-generation
AirPods](https://www.apple.com/airpods-3rd-generation/). All three make
excellent gifts. The second-generation AirPods cost $129, have a
relatively long stalk, and boast up to 5 hours of listening on one
charge. The $179 third-generation AirPods shrink the stalk, switch to a
force sensor for controls, add support for spatial audio with dynamic
head tracking, feature sweat and water resistance, have a MagSafe
wireless charging case, and last up to 6 hours on a single charge. For
$249, the second-generation AirPods Pro offer major upgrades to Active
Noise Cancellation and Transparency mode, provide touch control for
media playback and volume adjustments from the stem, and increase
battery life to 6 hours. The AirPods Pro now come with a new charging
case that's sweat- and water-resistant, includes a lanyard loop, and can
charge from a Lightning cable, MagSafe charger, Qi wireless charger, or
Apple Watch charger. All three models support Hey Siri commands and
automatically switch between Apple devices. See all the similarities and
differences in [Apple's comparison
tool](https://www.apple.com/airpods/compare/).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221107Th/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### HomePod mini

Although the original HomePod didn't set the world on fire, the $99
[HomePod mini](https://www.apple.com/homepod-mini/) has been
significantly more popular. The grapefruit-sized HomePod mini may be
small, but it produces great sound for its size and can do pretty much
everything the larger HomePod could do. You can control it entirely via
Siri, pair two for stereo sound, use it as a hub for your HomeKit home
automation accessories, and even have it play the sound from your Apple
TV. Put a HomePod mini in different rooms in the house, and you can use
Intercom to communicate with family members with your voice. If you're
giving it as a gift, remember that it's best when paired with an [Apple
Music](https://www.apple.com/apple-music/) subscription.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221107Th/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Apple TV 4K

The Apple TV hasn't changed much over recent years, but this year's new
models are enough better and cheaper to warrant inclusion in this
article. If someone on your list would benefit from a streaming media
player, consider the new third-generation [Apple TV
4K](https://www.apple.com/apple-tv-4k/), which has a lot going for it.
It now boasts a fast A15 Bionic chip, and the Siri Remote charges via
USB-C. For someone who mostly wants to watch TV, the $129 Apple TV 4K
(Wi-Fi) model is all they'll ever need, with 64 GB of storage. For
$149, the Apple TV 4K (Wi-Fi + Ethernet) has 128 GB of storage for
those who want to load a lot of apps and games, and it includes a
Gigabit Ethernet port and support for the Thread home automation
protocol.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221107Th/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### iPad, iPad mini, and iPad Air

If you're looking to give an iPad as a gift, Apple has numerous options,
with starting prices ranging from $329 to $599.

-   **Ninth-generation iPad:** The budget choice for a kid or an adult
    with basic needs is last year's ninth-generation
    [iPad](https://www.apple.com/ipad-10.2/), which remains an
    astonishing bargain at $329. It works with the first-generation
    [Apple Pencil](https://www.apple.com/apple-pencil/) ($99), and
    those who need to write can add the $159 [Smart
    Keyboard](https://www.apple.com/ipad-keyboards/).

-   **Tenth-generation iPad:** This year's redesigned tenth-generation
    [iPad](https://www.apple.com/ipad-10.9/) starts at $449, moving
    Touch ID to the top button, increasing the display size to 10.9
    inches, and positioning the front-facing camera on the landscape
    edge. It pairs with the new $249 [Magic Keyboard
    Folio](https://www.apple.com/ipad-keyboards/) and the
    first-generation Apple Pencil.

-   **iPad mini:** If you're looking for something small, the diminutive
    sixth-generation [iPad mini](https://www.apple.com/ipad-mini/) fits
    the bill at just $499. It's compatible with the second-generation
    [Apple Pencil](https://www.apple.com/apple-pencil/) ($129), but if
    you need a keyboard, you'll have to look to a third-party
    manufacturer or use a standard Bluetooth wireless keyboard.

-   **iPad Air:** For the most power short of the pricey [iPad
    Pro](https://www.apple.com/ipad-pro/) models, consider the
    fourth-generation [iPad Air](https://www.apple.com/ipad-air/). It
    starts at $599 and can handle even the most intensive tasks,
    especially when coupled with a second-generation [Apple
    Pencil](https://www.apple.com/apple-pencil/) and either a [Magic
    Keyboard](https://www.apple.com/ipad-keyboards/) ($299) or [Smart
    Keyboard Folio](https://www.apple.com/ipad-keyboards/) ($179).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221107Th/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Apple Watch Gift Certificate

We love the [Apple Watch](https://www.apple.com/watch/), but be careful
when considering it as a gift. There are three rather different models,
and Apple provides a dizzying number of options for case size, material,
and color, plus the band and color, making it difficult to know what
would be most appreciated. Instead of guessing what your recipient would
like, we encourage giving a certificate that's good for a conversation
about what to purchase. Then sit down with the recipient to run through
all the decisions on the [Apple Watch
site](https://www.apple.com/watch/).

There are three options this year: the updated [Apple Watch
SE](https://www.apple.com/apple-watch-se/) (starting at $249), the new
[Apple Watch Series 8](https://www.apple.com/apple-watch-series-8/)
(starting at $399), and the big, beefy, adventure-focused [Apple Watch
Ultra](https://www.apple.com/apple-watch-ultra/) (starting at $799).

Thanks to a larger screen, faster chip, and Apple's new iPhone and Apple
Watch crash detection feature, the Apple Watch SE is more compelling
than ever and all that most people need. Consider the Series 8 if you
also want a larger Always-On display, blood oxygen sensor, and ECG
capabilities, along with a new temperature sensor for cycle tracking.
The Apple Watch Ultra puts all those features and more into a 49mm
titanium case that features a new Action button that gives you quick
access to app-specific commands. Its buttons are larger and easier to
press, the Always-On display is brighter, the GPS works better in
challenging conditions, and it has a depth gauge and water temperature
sensor so it can serve as a dive computer. The Apple Watch Ultra boasts
up to 36 hours of battery life in normal usage and up to 60 hours in a
forthcoming extended battery optimization mode. It's an impressive
watch, but make sure you like how it looks on your wrist, given how much
larger it is than other models. Apple has a [helpful comparison
tool](https://www.apple.com/watch/compare/).

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221107Th/image7.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Even though they are worthy gifts, we didn't include any Macs in this
article because they're quite a bit more expensive and difficult to
select without extensive discussion of the recipient's needs. Let us
know if you need help choosing the right Mac for someone on your list,
but we're partial to the M1- and M2-based [MacBook
Air](https://www.apple.com/macbook-air/) and [24-inch
iMac](https://www.apple.com/imac-24/) for many users.