---
layout: post
date: '2022-03-26'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/how-to-use-change-tracking-effectively-when-collaborating-on-documents/
published: true
title: How to Use Change Tracking Effectively When Collaborating on Documents
description: How to Use Change Tracking Effectively When Collaborating on Documents
blogimgpath: 20220302Ho
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-TrackChanges.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-TrackChanges.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
Long gone are the days of printing a document, marking it up with a red
pencil, and sending it back to the author to input the changes. In the
modern world, we use comments and change tracking to collaborate in word
processors like Microsoft Word, Google Docs, Apple's Pages, and Nisus
Writer Pro. The specifics vary a little by app, but in essence, once you
turn on change tracking, every change you make becomes visible to others
working on the document, and they can accept or reject the change.
Changes and comments can also host brief discussion threads.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220302Ho/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

In this article, we're going to recommend general ways of working with
change tracking and comments, rather than exploring the particular
interfaces in different apps. This advice should work well for all apps
that support change tracking and comments.​

### Establish a Working Approach

There are two typical scenarios when working with others on a document.
Either you're collaborating with colleagues to create the best possible
final document, or you're negotiating over every change, as might be the
case when constructing a legal agreement where people have conflicting
goals and agendas. We'll focus on the former since everything gets tense
when multiple people have to sign off on every change. If you end up in
an editing scenario that's essentially an arms-length negotiation,
you'll probably make fewer changes and examine each one closely.​

### Assign Roles

Talk with your fellow collaborators to clarify who will be doing what.
Depending on your workflow, a document will have people in two or three
roles:

-   **Author:** The author drafts the document without change tracking
    enabled. Subsequently, the author accepts changes made by the editor
    and contributors.

-   **Editor:** The editor enhances the author's text with change
    tracking enabled and accepts the author's subsequent changes. (An
    editor isn't necessary as long as everyone else doesn't mind the
    author accepting their own changes later.)

-   **Contributor:** Everyone else is a contributor, and they only make
    changes in change tracking mode. They neither accept nor reject
    changes.

These roles make it clear who can and should do what. Otherwise, you end
up in a situation where people are hesitant to accept changes or where
someone accepts changes before the author has seen them.

Even with these roles, the order in which the document gets reviewed can
matter if you want certain contributors to see what's changed, even if
they don't accept the changes. Generally speaking, people take turns
with documents, with communication via email or some other channel to
let others know when they can dive in.

Some documents may need only one editing pass, whereas others will
require several. You'll know you're done when all changes have been
accepted and comments have been resolved.​

### Decide Which Changes to Show

When you enable change tracking, every change will be tracked. That can
be counterproductive if the number of changes becomes overwhelming---to
either people or the software. You may wish to make certain changes
without change tracking enabled or accept them before the next person's
turn. For instance:

-   **Formatting changes:** If you're changing styles or putting text
    into lists to make a draft more presentable or professional, those
    changes can quickly clutter the document and are usually not
    controversial.

-   **Consistency changes:** For ensuring consistent usage, such as one
    space after a period, a search-and-replace with change tracking
    disabled lets the next person avoid dealing with hundreds of small
    changes. You can leave a comment at the top of the document noting
    what you did.

-   **Minor proofreading changes:** Everyone makes typos. You may wish
    to keep typo fixes visible to show how much your editing has
    improved the document, or you can accept them right away to save the
    next person time.

-   **Too many changes to parse:** At times, you may edit a paragraph so
    heavily that it has been almost entirely rewritten. As with
    proofreading changes, you might want to keep those changes visible
    to indicate how much you've done, or you might want to accept them
    all and leave a comment saying, "Read this paragraph carefully---too
    many changes to show with change tracking."​

### Accept (Don't Reject) Changes

When it comes time to review changes, apps let you either accept or
reject changes. We usually recommend accepting changes even if you
disagree with them. That's not to say you have to stick with a proposed
change that you dislike, but the person who made it did so for a reason,
and it's up to you to figure out what that reason is and recast the text
to accommodate it, preferably with an explanatory comment. That way,
they'll see your change on their next pass and can decide if you
addressed their concern.

Occasionally, someone might negatively change some carefully worded text
because they didn't realize why it was worded that way. Rather than
rejecting such a change, leave it and start a discussion. In all
likelihood, they'll withdraw the change on the next pass, or you can
reject it once they see where you're coming from.

When accepting changes, you can employ several techniques:

-   **Few changes:** If there aren't that many changes, it's easy to
    accept them one at a time. As you do this, watch for mistakes that
    creep in---missing or double spaces, verb tense and number
    mismatches, and so on. These can be easy to introduce and difficult
    to see while editing.

-   **Many changes:** When the entire document seems to have changed
    color because there are so many changes, it's easier in most apps
    (other than Google Docs) to select a paragraph at a time, accept all
    changes in the selection, and then read it closely to make sure the
    changes are both helpful and don't introduce additional mistakes. A
    keyboard shortcut to an Accept Selected Changes command can make
    this process faster.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220302Ho/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


We don't recommend using the Accept All feature to accept all the
changes in the document unless it's quite short and you plan to read the
entire thing carefully again.​

### Dealing with Comments

Finally, some comments about comments. In most apps, you can add a
comment to a change and start a threaded discussion about the change.
That's extremely helpful if you want to explain why you made the change.
However, that approach works poorly if the next person wants to accept
your change and continue chatting in the comment, since accepting the
change will close the comment thread. As such, we recommend restricting
change-specific comments to non-controversial situations where you're
merely informing the next person about why you made ​the change.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220302Ho/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


When you need to ask a question or raise a topic for discussion, do that
in a standalone comment instead, so the discussion doesn't disappear
with the accepted change. Even in this situation, however, you have to
be careful. If you select a particular word and start a discussion
asking if it's the right word to use, the next person may not be able to
change that word without deleting the comment thread. One solution is to
select a few words before the text on which you're commenting, or just
the period ending the sentence, so changes can be made while retaining
the comment. Another approach is to select more text---the entire
sentence or paragraph that contains the text in question---for the
comment. That's more effective, but too many such comments will
overwhelm the document with large colored comment blocks.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220302Ho/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


Who should resolve comment threads? Although some comments are purely
informational and can be resolved by the person to whom they're
addressed, it's usually best if the person who started the comment
thread resolves it. Let's say the editor leaves a comment that asks a
question. The author responds, so the editor needs to see that response.
If it doesn't fully answer the initial question, the editor can ask for
more information, and the author can provide it. The editor can then
resolve the comment to indicate that the final comment from the author
closed the topic.

One last point. Comment threads within a document are useful but
limited. If a topic needs significant discussion, break it out to email,
Slack, or even a meeting rather than going back and forth within a
single comment at length.

We hope this advice makes your collaborative editing faster, easier, and
more companionable---remember, the goal should always be to improve the
document. However, there's room for tweaking within these general
guidelines to create the ideal workflow for your group.