---
layout: post
date: '2022-10-05'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/the-many-new-lock-screen-customizations-in-ios-16/
published: true
title: The Many New Lock Screen Customizations in iOS 16
description: The Many New Lock Screen Customizations in iOS 16
blogimgpath: 20221005Th
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-LockScreens.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-LockScreens.jpg
cta: 3
comments: true
---
iOS 16 has been out for a bit now, and it's likely safe to upgrade as
long as you don't rely on obsolete apps that might not be compatible.
When you take the plunge, the first new feature to check out is the
capability to create, customize, and switch among multiple Lock Screens,
each with its own wallpaper, clock font, and widgets. It's reminiscent
of how you customize Apple Watch faces. Plus, you can now link a Lock
Screen to a Focus so you know when that Focus is active.

To get started, touch and hold the Lock Screen until the Lock Screen
switcher appears. (Your iPhone must be unlocked at this point, which can
be a bit tricky with a Touch ID-based iPhone---gently touch the Home
button to authenticate, but don't press it or you'll open the Home
Screen.)

Tap the blue plus button to create a new Lock Screen---see below for how
to configure it. Once you have several Lock Screens, swipe left and
right to pick one, and tap it to make it active. You can customize
aspects of a Lock Screen after creating it by tapping the Customize
button, and if you don't like what you've done, delete it by swiping up
and tapping the trash button.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Wallpapers

iOS 16 offers seven types of wallpapers, which you select while creating
a Lock Screen by tapping buttons at the top or samples in a visual
gallery below.

-   **Photos:** Most people will choose a photo for their wallpaper. iOS
    16 uses machine learning to identify images that are likely to work
    well, separating them with image-selection filters into four
    categories: People, Pets, Nature, and Cities. You can also scroll
    through all your photos or particular albums and search for photos.
    Some people and pets will float above the clock (unless you add
    widgets), but you can toggle that with the Depth Effect option
    accessible in the ••• button.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Photo Shuffle:** Having trouble deciding which photo you prefer?
    The Photo Shuffle wallpaper automatically selects and switches
    between photos for you, letting you specify which categories to use,
    which people to include, and even which individual photos to show or
    hide (tap the ••• button to remove a suggested photo from the
    rotation). You can set the photo to rotate with a tap on the Lock
    Screen, whenever you lock your iPhone, hourly, or daily.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Emoji:** This wallpaper tiles up to six emoji in several different
    grid sizes and layouts, and you can change the background color by
    tapping the ••• button. Thanks to Apple's quality emoji art, the
    Emoji wallpaper is surprisingly attractive.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image5.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Weather:** Those who work in windowless offices might particularly
    appreciate the Weather wallpaper, which changes to reflect the
    current weather conditions (and time of day) in your location.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image6.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Astronomy:** For a broader perspective, the Astronomy wallpaper
    lets you look at the Earth, Moon, or solar system whenever you pick
    up your iPhone. Swipe to pick your preferred celestial body and zoom
    level.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image7.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Color:** Want something simpler? The Color wallpaper lets you
    choose a background color gradient from the color picker. Swipe to
    apply different effects.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image8.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **Collections:** This category, which appears only in the gallery,
    provides Apple-designed graphics such as Unity, Pride, and the
    clownfish wallpaper from the original iPhone.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image9.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Take some time to explore all the wallpaper types and their
options---the combinations are nearly endless. There's no downside to
creating and switching among different Lock Screens as the mood strikes
you.​

### Clock font and color

Once you decide on a wallpaper for a Lock Screen, you can customize the
clock font and color by tapping the clock. There are only eight font
options, but you should be able to find one you like. With color, Apple
provides some suggestions below the font choices, but if you scroll all
the way to the right and tap the color wheel, you can use iOS 16's color
pickers to select any color. The goal is to make sure it's readable
against the background image you've chosen.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image10.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


### Widgets

Beyond the eye candy of wallpapers and the customizable clock, widgets
make the iOS 16 Lock Screen more useful than ever. Some iPhone users are
accustomed to having flashlight and camera buttons on the Lock
screen---everyone can now add widgets to two distinct zones on the Lock
Screen, above and below the clock. The widget zone above the clock holds
only a single line of text or other controls, and it always displays
alongside the date, which shrinks if necessary. The zone below the clock
is taller and can hold two sizes of widgets: small ones that occupy a
single slot and large ones that take over two slots. You can mix and
match small and large widgets to fill---or not---the four available
slots.

To add widgets, tap the desired zone and tap widgets in the panel that
appears. Suggestions appear at the top, but if you scroll down, you can
see a list of all the apps that offer widgets. Tap an app to see its
widgets---swipe to see the full set it offers. Once you've added a
widget, you may be able to tap it again to configure it---such as by
specifying tickers for the Stocks widget. To rearrange widgets, drag
them but be aware that this works poorly at the moment; it may be easier
to delete the widgets (tap the ⊖ button) and add them again in the
desired order.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image11.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

### Focus

Focus subsumed Do Not Disturb in iOS 15. Although Focus is far more
flexible and customizable than Do Not Disturb, that power also makes it
hard to predict when notifications will be blocked, since it can be
difficult to know when a Focus is active. With iOS 16, Apple has made
Focus more obvious by letting you link a Focus to a Lock Screen.

When you're in the Lock Screen switcher, a Focus button appears toward
the bottom of each Lock Screen. Tap it and select a Focus to link them.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20221005Th/image12.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

Two things become true once you've linked a Focus to a Lock Screen:

-   When you activate that Focus in Control Center, or its settings
    cause it to activate automatically, iOS 16 switches to the linked
    Lock Screen. That's handy if you have a manually triggered Focus for
    family time, for instance, or an automatically activated Focus for
    Driving.

-   When you switch to a particular Lock Screen, its linked Focus
    activates and starts blocking notifications. It's probably easier to
    activate a Focus in Control Center, but switching Lock Screens has
    the same effect.

It may take a few weeks to figure out what Lock Screens you prefer and
customize them to your liking, but we think you'll enjoy this new
feature.