---
layout: post
date: '2022-07-11'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/picking-group-meeting-times-is-easy-with-crab-fit/
published: true
title: Picking Group Meeting Times Is Easy with Crab Fit
description: Picking Group Meeting Times Is Easy with Crab Fit
blogimgpath: 20220706Pi
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-GroupScheduling.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-GroupScheduling.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Various calendar services let you schedule a meeting based on invited
attendees picking preferred times from a set of specified
options---[Doodle](https://doodle.com/) is the most well-known. But the
problem with such services is that you have to know which dates and
times are likely to work for the people you're polling. If you want to
set up an hour-long meeting sometime in the next week but have no idea
what might work for others, you'll spend an excessive amount of time
specifying all the possible options.

A free---if oddly named---Internet service called [Crab
Fit](https://crab.fit/) turns this scheduling problem around. Instead of
letting people vote for preset options---none of which may work---Crab
Fit asks everyone when they could possibly meet and then reveals which
days and times have the most overlap. It's easy to use and remarkably
effective.

You can use Crab Fit to schedule a movie night with friends, a workgroup
brainstorming session, or any other event where people need to assemble
at the same time. As an example, let's walk through finding a time for a
committee meeting.​

### Create a Crab Fit Event

Creating an event is straightforward.

1.  Name your event.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Pi/image2.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />



2.  Choose whether you are setting up a specific date or a general day
    of the week. Most of the time, you'll want to identify specific
    dates when your group can meet. You can also switch to days of the
    week to find a regularly repeating time, such as for a weekly lunch
    meeting.


3.  Select the dates or days of the week you want to include---you can
    select individual boxes or drag across a range.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Pi/image3.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


4.  Pick the broad range of times that might work for your event. Crab
    Fit defaults to 9 AM to 5 PM, but you can adjust the sliders for
    different times to accommodate a breakfast meeting or movie night.
    If you're setting up an online event for people across multiple time
    zones, you can also specify your time zone so others see the options
    in theirs.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Pi/image4.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


5.  Click Create to create the event and load the voting page. Before
    voting yourself, copy the link to the page---just click it to copy
    it to the clipboard---or click the email link to create a new email
    message containing the link.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Pi/image5.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


6.  Send the link to the people you want to invite to the meeting
    however you want: email, Messages, Slack, whatever.​

### Add Your Availability to a Crab Fit Event

Once you've created and shared your event, it's time to say when you're
available. This process is the same for you as it is for everyone you're
inviting, so if you get invited to a Crab Fit event, the same process
applies:

1.  Sign in. Don't worry about having to create yet another
    account---you're only providing a name so others know that you've
    voted, and the password is necessary only if you want to ensure that
    no one else can use your name to change your availability. If you
    use Crab Fit regularly, you can save your name and password in a
    password manager and autofill them whenever necessary.


2.  If your time zone is different from the one shown, choose your time
    zone. When you do that, the times in the next step will reflect your
    local time rather than the times specified when the event was
    created.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Pi/image6.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />


3.  Select times when you're available. You may be able to sync with
    your Google Calendar or Outlook Calendar (the Google Calendar option
    didn't work for us) to select times that aren't already scheduled,
    but it's simple enough to drag to select the times you're available.
    While working, you can click the Group Availability tab to see when
    others have said they're available---you may wish to adjust your
    times if you see that the group is already heading toward a
    consensus that works better or worse for you.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Pi/image7.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

That's all there is to it---there's no need to do anything else to
submit your available times. The magic happens when all the other people
in your group say when they're available too, following the same steps.​

### Pick the Best Time to Meet

As the organizer, it's your job to pick the best time, but everyone can
see on the Group Availability tab which times are better and worse---the
darker the color, the more overlap between schedules. Hover your pointer
(or tap on an iPhone or iPad) over a particular time to see who is
available then.

<img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2022/20220706Pi/image8.png" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

The rest is up to you---Crab Fit doesn't alert participants or do
anything else, so you need to identify the best time and convey that to
the people you've invited.

When there's only a single time when everyone can make it, agreeing on
it is easy, but you'll likely have to choose from multiple times that
are equally as good for everyone. The hardest situation comes when there
are conflicting possibilities, none of which is perfect. In the example
above, the best solutions get only five of six people, and who can't
make it differs by time. You'll have to decide who to leave out.

Regardless, Crab Fit radically simplifies homing in on the best possible
meeting time. It works well in desktop Web browsers and the iPhone and
iPad. And if there's something about it that you don't like, check out
[When2Meet](https://www.when2meet.com/), which works nearly identically
but doesn't display well on the small iPhone screen.