---
layout: post
date: '2022-10-06'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/best-offense-is-a-good-defense/
published: true
title: "Cybersecurity Awareness Month: Best Offense is a Good Defense"
description: "Cybersecurity Awareness Month: Best Offense is a Good Defense"
blogimgpath: 20221006Be
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-OctCyber2.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2022/Header-OctCyber2.jpg
cta: 4
comments: true
---
It's fall and for most of us, that means one thing: football season!
Most Americans love sitting in front of the TV on Sunday to watch their
favorite team battle it out on the gridiron. The touchdowns, the field
goals, the interceptions, the big hits. It's very exciting. But this
season we're asking that while you're watching the game, you take a
second to think about how it compares to a strong cybersecurity
strategy. Now we know what you're thinking. How do you tie together
football with cybersecurity? Well, it's not as hard as you might think.

A wise, unknown speaker once said, "The best offense is a good defense."
As unlikely as it may seem, this adage applies both to football and to
cybersecurity. In football, you need a strong defense to keep the other
team's playmakers out of your endzone. When it comes to cybersecurity,
you need a strong defense to keep cyber criminals from getting their
hands on your personally identifiable information (PII). You need the
strongest defense possible to protect your data. Last season, the
Buffalo Bills had the NFL's best defense. So, it's safe to say, you want
your cybersecurity to be like the Buffalo Bills.

If you think of the ball as malware and the offensive players as cyber
criminals, even more connections appear between football and
cybersecurity. For example, many teams use a strategy called "play
action" where the quarterback pretends to hand off the ball to a running
back only to pull the ball away at the last second and throw it. This is
similar to the cybercriminal strategy of phishing where a criminal uses
a fake but authentic-looking email to trick their victim into opening up
an attachment or clicking a link that leads them to malware. Both
strategies use deception to trick their victims into thinking one thing
is happening (a run play or a normal email) only for a different and
detrimental action to occur instead (a pass play or a malware
infection).

So, can NFL defenses work against these plays help us to understand how
to not fall for a phishing attempt? They sure can! Defenses will watch
the offensive linemen to figure out whether a play is really a run or if
it's a pass in disguise. If the linemen move forward to open a hole for
the running back, then it's actually a run. If they stand straight up
and pass block, then it's a pass. In the same way, there are things you
can look for in a suspicious email to figure out whether it's real or
not. We even have a fun name for it, it's called the SLAM Method.

SLAM stands for Sender, Links, Attachments, and Message. When you come
across a suspicious email you should first check the sender. Make sure
the address the email is coming from is correct and doesn't have any
spelling errors. If it's in any way wrong, you are likely being phished.
Then hover over any links present in the email to see where they are
taking you. If what shows up doesn't match with the name in the link or
if it looks at all suspicious, do not click on it. Never open
attachments from unknown emails, it could contain dangerous malware that
can infect your device. Even if it comes from someone you know, if
anything looks off (or phishy) double-check with the sender through
another form of communication. Lastly, check the message of the email
for any spelling/grammar errors or an uncommon sense of urgency.

We're not going to sit here and expect you to go over your training
during the big game, but if you can find a way to connect what you love
to what will protect your data, that could be what saves you from a
breach.
