---
layout: post
date: '2023-01-10'
author: Jon Brown
permalink: /blog/apple-delivers-promised-features-in-end-of-year-os-updates/
published: true
title: Apple Delivers Promised Features in End-of-Year OS Updates
description: Apple Delivers Promised Features in End-of-Year OS Updates
blogimgpath: 20230102Ap
tags:
  - MacOS
  - iOS
categories:
  - tips
image: /assets/images/covers/2023/Header-VenturaUpdates.jpg
thumbnail: /assets/images/covers/2023/Header-VenturaUpdates.jpg
cta: 2
comments: true
---
Every year at its Worldwide Developer Conference in June, Apple previews
planned features in the upcoming versions of macOS, iOS, iPadOS,
watchOS, and tvOS. However, not all of those features are necessarily
ready for the initial releases of those operating systems. In part,
that's because iOS must ship in sync with the latest iPhone models that
Apple releases in September, whereas iPadOS and macOS often come out
later. Even then, some of Apple's promised features may not be ready for
public consumption until the .1 or .2 updates.

Just before the holidays, Apple released a full set of updates,
including [iOS 16.2](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213407), [iPadOS
16.2](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213408), [macOS 13.1
Ventura](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213268), [watchOS
9.2](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213436), and [tvOS
16.2](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT207936). Between those updates
and the ones immediately preceding them, Apple has now delivered on all
of its 2022 promises.

Here is a rundown of what's now possible. Some features are specific to
one of Apple's operating systems; others cut across several and may work
only on updated devices or even require that all your devices be
upgraded:

-   **[iCloud Shared Photo
    Library](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213248):** Starting in
    iOS 16.1, iPadOS 16.1, and macOS 13.0, you can create another photo
    library and share it with family and close friends. It's a great way
    to create a single shared space for photos and videos, but note that
    everything you contribute moves out of your Personal Library and
    into the Shared Library. Plus, everyone with whom you're sharing has
    equal permissions to add, edit, and delete content in the Shared
    Library. The person who creates the Shared Library must have space
    in iCloud for it; it doesn't count against anyone else's iCloud
    storage.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2023/20230102Ap/image2.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **[Live
    Activities](https://ios.gadgethacks.com/how-to/use-live-activities-your-iphone-track-scores-rides-pets-chats-tasks-workouts-and-more-glance-0385231/):**
    With iOS 16.1, Apple also unveiled Live Activities, a new type of
    dynamic notification that can appear on the iPhone's Lock Screen or
    the iPhone 14 Pro's Dynamic Island. Live Activities allow apps to
    display data like live sports scores (from the TV app), active
    weather (in CARROT Weather, below), flight tracking (in Flighty),
    and more.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2023/20230102Ap/image3.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **[Freeform](https://support.apple.com/guide/freeform/welcome/mac):**
    The most notable addition in iOS 16.2, iPadOS 16.2, and macOS 13.1
    was Freeform, Apple's digital whiteboard app designed for
    collaborative brainstorming. It enables users to lay out a wide
    variety of content on a flexible canvas without worrying about fixed
    layouts or restrictive page sizes. Boards can contain text,
    hand-drawn graphics, sticky notes, shapes, and attachments---nearly
    any file on your Mac, iPad, or iPhone. Data syncs to your other
    devices through iCloud, and you can invite others (who must also be
    running a supported operating system) to collaborate on a board in
    real time.
    <img alt="Blog Photo" src="{{ site.site_cdn }}/assets/images/blog/2023/20230102Ap/image4.jpeg" class="img-fluid rounded m-2" width="700" />

-   **[New Home
    architecture](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213481):** Apple
    promised that the new Home architecture would be more reliable and
    efficient, although it's not clear what that means. It does require
    an explicit upgrade, and once upgraded, devices that aren't running
    the latest versions of iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS, and
    HomePod Software won't be able to access the home. Apple has
    temporarily removed the option to upgrade after problems were
    reported, so perhaps wait until the company restores the upgrade and
    others have had a chance to test it.

-   [**Stage Manager on external
    displays:**](https://support.apple.com/guide/ipad/connect-to-a-display-with-a-cable-ipadf1276cde/16.0/ipados/16.0#iPad3b881f32)
    The feature that initially caused iPadOS 16 to be delayed was Stage
    Manager, Apple's new windowing paradigm for the
    [iPad](https://support.apple.com/guide/ipad/move-resize-and-organize-windows-ipad1240f36f/16.0/ipados/16.0)
    and the
    [Mac](https://support.apple.com/guide/mac-help/use-stage-manager-mchl534ba392/mac).
    However, even when it first shipped in iPadOS 16.1, Stage Manager
    didn't support external displays on the iPad. With iPadOS 16.2, you
    can finally have four apps in Stage Manager on the iPad display and
    another four on an external display. However, using Stage Manager on
    an external display requires an M1 iPad, which means the
    fifth-generation iPad Air, the third-generation 11-inch iPad Pro and
    later, and the fifth-generation 12.9-inch iPad Pro and later.

-   **[Race Route and automatic track
    detection](https://support.apple.com/guide/watch/work-out-with-apple-watch-apdddc23b615/watchos):**
    In watchOS 9.2, the new Race Route feature gives you the option of
    racing your last or best time on any route you've run or biked at
    least twice. Plus, if you start an Outdoor Run workout while at a
    track, you're prompted to begin a Track workout that optionally
    provides track-specific metrics like lap time and pace.

-   **[Advanced Data
    Protection](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/advanced-data-protection-for-icloud-sec973254c5f/web):**
    In a surprise announcement in December, Apple unveiled Advanced Data
    Protection for iCloud, which extends end-to-end encryption to many
    more types of data in iCloud. For those concerned about breaches of
    Apple's security or overreach by law enforcement, Advanced Data
    Protection is a very good thing. The downside is that when the
    feature is enabled, Apple cannot recover your data if you forget
    your iCloud password. For most people, the standard iCloud data
    protection remains sufficient. If you want to upgrade, note that all
    devices that you want to connect to your iCloud account must be
    running the latest operating system versions, which may not be
    possible for some otherwise fully functional older devices.

-   **[Apple Music
    Sing](https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2022/12/apple-introduces-apple-music-sing/):**
    If you've been hankering to sing along with your favorite songs,
    Apple Music Sing is essentially karaoke for Apple Music subscribers
    on the [iPhone, iPad](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204459), and
    [third-generation Apple
    TV](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212264). Alcohol not included.

Between these new features and some important security updates, we
strongly encourage anyone running iOS 16, iPadOS 16, watchOS 9, and tvOS
16 to update to iOS 16.2, iPadOS 16.2, watchOS 9.2, and tvOS 16.2. And
if you're still running an earlier version of one of those operating
systems, you can upgrade to the latest at any time---they're fine.

Similarly, if you're already running macOS 13 Ventura---perhaps on a
newly purchased Mac--- you should update to version 13.1 to take
advantage of security fixes. However, if you haven't yet upgraded from
macOS 12 Monterey, perhaps wait a little longer. There has been only one
macOS update with bug fixes since the initial release of Ventura, so it
feels as though another bug fix update might arrive soon, after which we
may recommend general upgrades.